Athlete Table
There are many people who enjoy rigorous physical activity 
on some level. Whether this is some kind of organized sport or 
simply for personal fitness, the level of involvement can range 
from an occasional game of recreational fun shooting hoops to an 
Olympic gymnast who trains the majority of the day, every day. 
Whether these Nightbane were budding young professionals, 
physically fit, or just hopelessly dreamed of one day becoming a 
pro athlete, features from this table indicate a substantial interest 
and/or investment in athletics of any number of styles and types.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-11% Streamlined: Built for running, this Nightbane has 
a lean body with long, powerful limbs. Whether walking, jog-
ging, running, or swimming, he or she seems to glide almost ef-
fortlessly across the ground or through the water. Of course, this 
also means that the body is less massive than would otherwise be 
the case (-20% normal weight), sacrificing strength and damage 
resistance for speed and endurance. Bonuses: The Morphus is 
taller than average, add one foot (0.3 m) to normal height. Nor-
mal Spd attribute is replaced with 2D4x10+40 (approximately 
20.5 to 82 mph or 33-131 kph), and +1 to the P.P. attribute. Even 
running at maximum speed for hours at a time does NOT fatigue 
the Nightbane in any way. +1D6 to kick damage. Penalties: -1D6 
to the P.S. attribute and reduce starting S.D.C. by 10%. If the 
Morphus form has an A.R., reduce it by 2 points.
12-22% Gymnast’s Build: Compact, lithe, and flexible, the 
build of this Morphus form is perfect for feats of physical agility 
and strength without compromising speed of movement. While 
it is not always apparent that ‘Bane with this build are as physi-
cally adept as they are, when they spring into action the grace 
of their movements is stunning. Bonuses: +2 to the P.S., +1D4 
to P.P., +1 to P.E. and +2 to the P.B. attribute, +4D6 S.D.C., 
automatically gets the Gymnastics skill at 68% +4% per level of 
experience, and +10% to Physical skills such as Acrobatics and 
Climbing/Rappelling. Penalties: -2 to save vs poisons/toxins and 
-1 to Horror Factor.
23-34% Musclebound: The Morphus has musculature on par 
with an Olympic weightlifter or circus strongman, with a thick 
neck, broad shoulders and chest, and massive arms and legs. 
Every major muscle in the Nightbane’s body is also toned and 
well defined. In the absence of obvious deformities, this character 
can enter and win bodybuilding contests hands-down. Bonuses: 
+1D6+4 to the P.S. attribute, +2 to P.E., and +1 to P.B., +1D4x10 
S.D.C., +1 to Awe/Horror Factor, and the character can lift and 
carry twice the standard amount for their strength attribute. Pen-
alties: -1 to the P.P. attribute, -1D6 to Spd, and -10% on skills 
like Acrobatics, Climbing, Gymnastics, Prowl and Swimming.
35-45% Team Jersey: Whether this jersey is from the char-
acter’s high-school sports team, a favorite professional team, or 
some other athletic organization, the effects are the same. Wear-
ing a team’s colors provides a strong sense of identity and be-
longing that is reassuring, comforting, and a point of pride and 
inspiration. Interestingly, no substance like dirt, blood, or even 
paint soils the team logo on this jersey no matter how much cov-
ers the Nightbane. Bonuses: +1 to the M.E. attribute, +1 on Per-
ception Rolls involving sports and sports teams (+2 on Perception 
Rolls involving the team represented on the jersey), +1 to save 
vs mind control and possession, +1 to save vs Horror Factor, and 
+1D6 S.D.C. Penalty: -1 to the P.E. attribute.
46-56% Skates: Ice skates, inline roller skates, or some other 
type of skates are attached to the feet of the Morphus form. Mov-
ing on skates is second nature to this Nightbane, allowing him to 
not only perform feats of speed on flat surfaces but also to move 
normally on surfaces not ordinarily negotiable on skates. Bonus-
es: Double the Nightbane’s speed on hard, flat surfaces like ice, 
roller rinks, pavement, concrete, tiled flooring, etc., +1D6 to kick 
damage. Penalties: -20% to Prowl and half speed on rough, un-
even or soft surfaces such as gravel, grass and mud.
57-67% Club/Stick: Several sports use a stick, club, mallet 
or bat. This Nightbane played or admired such a sport and so 
his Morphus includes the blunt item of that game be it a hockey 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
29
stick, golf club, cricket bat, baseball bat, polo mallet, etc. No mat-
ter what form it takes, this piece of gear is a blunt weapon that 
inflicts 1D6+3 damage in addition to the Supernatural P.S. punch 
damage of the character when used as a weapon. Bonuses: +1 to 
strike and parry with the club, +2 to pull punch. Penalties: The 
stick is large and unwieldy to carry, so other two-handed weap-
ons cannot be used unless it can be slung over the back or the 
Nightbane has other appendages.
68-78% Protective Gear: The Morphus wears the protective 
gear common to the Nightbane’s chosen sport(s) like American 
football, hockey, and so on. This protective gear may appear to 
be vintage, modern, or even futuristic, and may have stylistic 
features that fit with the overall Morphus, such as shin guards 
made of chitin for an insectoid Nightbane. Bonuses: Heavy pads 
and protectors like those worn by most football or hockey play-
ers over the shoulders, chest, elbows, hands, knees and thighs, as 
well as some sort of helmet or head protection provides an ad-
ditional +2D4x10 S.D.C. and +1 to Natural A.R. Penalties: -3 to 
the Spd attribute and -15% to all Physical skills that require flex-
ibility and movement such as Acrobatics, Climbing, Gymnastics, 
Prowl, Swimming, and in this case skills like Pick Locks, Pick 
Pockets and Disguise.
79-89% Cleats: Specialized footwear with small metal spikes 
built into the bottom. Worn by runners, golfers, baseball play-
ers and many other athletes who compete on dirt or turf. These 
shoes are meant to provide greater traction. For the Nightbane 
with this feature, the cleats even dig into asphalt and concrete 
that hasn’t been reinforced. Bonuses: +1D4 to the Spd attribute 
and +3 to kick damage. Surfaces such as ice, mud, and even oil-
slicked floors do not cause the Nightbane to lose his footing, slip 
or fall. Penalties: -20% to Prowl across hard surfaces where the 
spikes scratch, clunk and make a rackets as well as leave scuffs 
and scratches on the surface. The Nightbane is also easily tracked 
across soft and hard surfaces due to the tell-tale gouges and holes 
left in the ground by the cleats and scratches and pockmarks left 
on hard surfaces.
90-00% Game Ball/Projectile: The Nightbane’s Morphus is 
likely to have the kind of stitching and patterns of the ball used 
in his sport of choice, incorporated into his body appearance. He 
also carries a ball, puck, Frisbee, or similar object used to play a 
particular sport. This ball may look like the genuine item or be 
styled after the Morphus, but the effects are the same. The projec-
tile can be thrown, kicked, or otherwise propelled at tremendous 
speed to strike up to 300 feet (91.5 m) away and returns to the 
character after being thrown. Bank-shots are also possible, but -2 
to strike, with only the final surface struck taking damage.
Anything hit by the speeding ball/projectile takes damage 
equal to half the Nightbane’s Supernatural P.S. punch damage 
+1D6. There is also a chance that a victim struck by the ball 
is knocked off his feet, losing initiative and one melee attack. 
Against targets with normal strength, there is a 01-25% chance 
of being knocked flat, and a 01-10% chance against those with 
Supernatural Strength or larger than 8 feet (2.4 m); +20% to those 
odds if the target is already off balance. The Nightbane may pass 
this projectile to another person up to 300 feet (91.5 m) away, but 
once dropped or thrown, it returns to the Nightbane it belongs to. 
Bonuses: +2 to strike with the projectile, +2 to catch balls or in-
tercept thrown projectiles, and +1 to dodge projectiles. Penalties: 
-3 to base P.P.E. -20% to skills like Climbing, Swimming, and 
other physical activities that require the use of both hands. The 
ball must always be held, meaning that no two-handed weapons 
can be used unless the Nightbane has multiple limbs, or turns into 
his Facade.