Bat Table------------
Bat-like Nightbane have often been confused with vampires 
and demons. It may not be an accident that many Nightbane with 
such Morphi were fascinated with creatures of the night before 
the Becoming. During Dark Day, many an Anne Rice fan found 
himself or herself turned into something beyond the vampire 
tales' wildest imaginings. While vampire bats seem to be domi­
nant among these Nightbane, all bat species can be found in one 
shape or another. All bat characters instinctively have the base 
skills of climb at 45% and prowl at 20% whenever they change 
into their Morphus shape.
01-20% Full Bat: The Nightbane has the shape of a giant 
bat, typically with a wingspan of over seven feet (2. 1 m)! This 
Morphus has +2 to P.S., +2 P.E., +4 to P.P., a flying speed of 
lD6xlO+20, and +2D4xlO to S.D.C. Ultra-acute hearing adds 
+3 to initiative and +4 to any perception rolls involving sound, 
and unlike true bats, the Nightbane's vision is not impaired 
(same as a human's). Its arms are giant leathery wings with 
hands at the middle joint. This limits the character's ability to 
manipulate tools and use weapons (-6 to strike, -35% to perfonn 
skills; both are impossible when flying), although it can carry 
small objects in its hands or large items or people in its prehen­
sile clawed feet. The clawed feet inflict 2D6 S.D.C. plus hand to 
hand damage, and its bite does 2D6 S.D.C. Add lD4 to Horror 
Factor. 
The bat fonn is also capable of using its screeching as a fonn 
of radar, allowing it to sense invisible figures and obstacles con­
cealed in total darkness, fog, smoke, etc. Range is 500 feet (152 
m).
21-40% Were-Bat: This Morphus is more human-like, al­
though still predominantly bestial. The Nightbane is covered 
with fur, and its head is animalistic, with a snout and the over­
sized ears of a bat. Instead of anns it has full bat-wings, but they 
end in large, clawed hands that can be used to grasp objects and 
use tools or weapons (-3 to strike, -15% to perfonn skills; nei­
ther can be done while flying). Bonuses: +3 to P.S., +3 to P.P., 
+3 to P.E., and the character has a flying speed of ID6xlO. 
+ lD6xlO S.D.C. Ultra-acute hearing adds + 1 to initiative and +3 
to any perception rolls involving sound. Unlike true bats, the 
Nightbane's vision is not impaired. The bat fonn is also capable 
of using its screeching as a fonn of radar/sonar, allowing it to 
sense invisible figures and see with obscured vision at a range of 
200 feet (61 .0 m). Claws on hands and feet inflict 2D4 S.D.C. in 
addition to nonnal hand to hand damage. Bite does 2D4 S.D.C. 
Add lD6 to Horror Factor.
41-60% Humanoid Bat: The Nightbane's skin is sparsely 
covered by fur, and the face and features are mostly humanoid, 
with pointy but small ears and sharp fangs marring an otherwise 
nonnal face and head. Small bat-wings extend from beneath the 
anns, making nonnal clothing very uncomfortable to wear (the 
wings can be folded, but this restricts movement). Bonuses: +2 
to P.S., + 1  to P.P., and limited flying speed of lD4xlO. 
+ 1 D4x 10 to physical S.D.C., Acute hearing adds +2 to any perJoe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
ception rolls involving sound; the Nightbane does NOT have the 
bat's sonar sense. Claws on hands inflict ID6 S.D.C. in addition 
to normal hand to hand damage. Bite does I D6 S.D.C. Add ID4 
to Horror Factor.
61-80% Bat Wings: The Nightbane looks like a perfectly 
normal human - except for the bat wings protruding from 
his/her back, which give him a demonic appearance. The wings 
allow for flight at a speed of ID6xlO and + 1 to dodge when fly­
ing. Add 4D6 to S.D.C., and +2 to Horror Factor.
81-00% Bat Head: A normal human body, topped by a per­
fect bat's head. Add 2D6 to S.D.C. Ultra-acute hearing adds +2 
to initiative and +4 to any perception rolls involving sound. Un­
like true bats, the character's vision is not impaired. The bat 
form is also capable of using its screeching as a form of radar, 
allowing it to sense invisible figures and see in total darkness, 
fog or smoke at a range of 500 feet ( 1 52 m). Bite inflicts 2D6 
S.D.C. Add +2 to Horror Factor. 