Clown Table
Nightbane with features from this table might have been the 
“class-clown,” dreamed about joining the circus, wanted to be-
come a mime, clown or rodeo clown, or possibly even had a 
deathly fear of clowns and their ilk, so to them, clowns are scary 
and monstrous. While Nightbane with such a comical appearance 
might initially be disregarded or even persecuted by their breth-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
30
ren, there is something a little more than unsettling about watch-
ing this Nightbane in combat or caving in a Hound’s head with 
a “toy” mallet or cartwheel through a gunfight while cackling 
like a fool. Even the most battle-hardened warriors grudgingly 
accept Clown Nightbane as capable allies or foes, even if their 
antics can be annoying. Note: Nightbane with any of the features 
below automatically have a Horror Factor of 18 to anyone afraid 
of clowns.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Clown Nose: The character has a small, brightly 
colored rubber ball over the tip of the nose which honks when 
squeezed. Unlike a normal clown nose, this one is a part of the 
‘Bane and cannot be removed. The skin color of the Nightbane’s 
face may be normal or pale grey or white like that of clown, or 
reflect the rest of his Morphus. Bonuses: Keen sense of smell. 
Track by smell equal to a bloodhound (70% +1% per level of 
experience; +10% to follow blood or chemical scent). As a funny 
prop, if the character honks the nose while smiling, laughing, be-
having in a silly manner or striking a silly pose, those who see 
or encounter him are temporarily unaffected by the Nightbane’s 
Horror Factor. In fact, as long as he makes no aggressive or scary 
moves, he seems harmless, even comical and friendly. It also 
gives the Nightbane a base Charm/Impress of 35% or a +10% 
if his P.B. attribute offers a higher than 35% chance, and double 
the base percentage (or +20%) when dealing with children under 
the age of thirteen. Penalties: -2 to M.A. and P.B. attributes, -3 
to base P.P.E., -2 to Horror Factor and -20% to the Disguise and 
Impersonation skills.
11-20% Face Paint: The Morphus of the Nightbane has a 
white face painted in classic clown patterns in a riot of gar-
ish colors. This may be the traditional embellishment of clowns 
the world over or a completely original pattern that may look 
silly, friendly, happy, sad, or yes, frightening and monstrous. 
The juxtaposition of the clown motif with other monstrous or 
spooky elements like fangs or pointed teeth, glowing eyes, 
spikes, mouth sewn shut, etc. can make the clown face seem all 
the more menacing and creepy. Bonuses: +2 to M.A., +1 on ini-
tiative, +1 to Horror Factor, and can mold his face to resemble 
another person or monster! Mold Face (special): The Nightbane 
can morph his face to look like some other kind of humanoid, 
demon or monster or to look like a specific person (must have 
the person there or good reference). The transformation takes 
1D4 melee rounds (15-60 seconds). If the subject being copied 
is in front of him, he/she can imitate the person’s voice as well! 
This is transformation is done to confuse and freak out people 
as well as to impersonate them. Suddenly seeing your own face 
or that of a loved one looking back at you is very unnerving and 
frightening. Automatically gets the Disguise and Impersonation 
skills at 62% +2% per level of experience. Penalties: -2 to P.B. 
and M.E. attributes, -1 to save vs magic, and -3D6+10 from 
permanent P.P.E. base.
21-30% Clown Clothes: The clothing that appears on this 
Nightbane is garishly colored and may be baggy and oversized. 
The actual type of attire varies drastically, and can range from the 
denim overalls and the western shirt of a rodeo clown to multi-
colored outfits attributed to clowns or medieval court jesters, to 
suit and tie. Bonuses: +2D6 S.D.C. and +1 to Natural A.R. +1 
to dodge and entangle. +15% to any skills used to entertain such 
as Performance, Sing, and Dance. +20% to the Concealment and 
Palming skills if hiding something on the Nightbane’s person. 
Moreover, no body can remember the clown’s face. They can 
describe his clothing, but his face is a blank and it is blurred out 
in photographs, video and film. Penalties: -1 to the P.P. attribute 
and -2 to Spd. -15% to Climbing, Prowl, and Swimming skills. 
Skills like Seduction and Undercover Ops are likely impossible 
while in this Morphus, but nobody can remember the face.
31-40% Clown Shoes: The character’s Morphus is wear-
ing brightly colored shoes that are roughly twice the normal 
size. These stereotypical “clown” shoes make running or sneak-
ing more difficult, but they’re good for a laugh and have a few 
perks. Bonuses: +6 to the swimming Spd only, +6 damage from 
kicks and stomp attacks, and impervious to damage from falls 
and impact from large objects (special) like a falling safe, car, 
truck, boulder, etc., as well as explosions (no damage!). Note 
that punches, kicks, bullets and melee weapons, including blunt 
weapons, do full damage to the clown. Penalties: -2 to the P.P. 
and M.E. attributes, reduce land Spd by half, -20% to Prowl, 
-30% to Climbing and cannot leap/jump.
41-50% Outrageous Hair and Head: The Nightbane has a 
painted clown face, and wild hair that could be a mohawk of any 
variety, shaped into spikes, frizzed up and out in one or more 
weird directions, a giant Afro, incredibly long or in ponytails, 
and in one or more bright colors. And the head is REMOVABLE! 
Yes, removable. This us usually done for shock value and to cre-
ate fear, confusion and panic. Or the head could have some other 
outrage and disturbing element such as being able to split the 
head in half, or lift the top off like a lid to a jar to reveal his brain 
(momentary +2 to Horror Factor), or has fangs when he wants 
them to show, etc. Bonuses: The head is impervious to physical 
damage! Bullets bounce off, blows to the head hurt but do no 
damage, and the clown cannot be knocked out from a blow to 
the head. +2 to Horror Factor when the head is visibly detached 
from the body and held in one of the Nightbane’s hands or tucked 
under an arm, kept inside a box, etc. The head can be removed 
and placed someplace inconspicuous to spy on people, removed 
to frighten people, kept in a box and revealed to frighten people, 
placed on a stick like a living scepter, or float like a balloon on 
a string one or two feet (0.3 or 0.6 m) above the neck and shoul-
ders. The head holds the brains and consciousness of the Night-
bane, and it still controls the body even when detached. Though 
detachable, the body is never more than 20 feet (6.1 m) away. 
If the head or body is stolen and taken more than 120 feet (36.6 
m) away, it forces the Nightbane to switch from Morphus into 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
31
his Facade to reunite his body with his head. Penalties: -1D4 to 
the M.A. and P.B. attributes, -5% to Prowl and -40% to Tailing. 
Skills like Undercover Ops, Seduction, Disguise and Imperson-
ation are impossible while in this Morphus.
51-60% Balloons: Tied to this Morphus on strings are 2D4+3 
medium-sized helium balloons of various colors. Each floats 
a few feet (a meter) above the Nightbane. They never seem to 
tangle or otherwise impede the Nightbane’s movement, though 
they may obscure views of anything directly above. Each balloon 
has only a single point of S.D.C., but they are only damaged by 
attacks leveled directly at them. The balloons can also be cut free 
and even handed out or left tied to objects. By squeezing and 
twisting the balloons, they can be made into balloon animals and 
other shapes. Balloons that are destroyed or cut loose regenerate 
at the rate of one every hour. Bonuses: As long as one balloon is 
still attached, the Nightbane floats down when he jumps from any 
height, taking 1D6 damage upon a hard landing; double damage 
from heights greater than 200 feet (61 m). He can also jump up 
to 30 feet (9.1 m) high or across as long as he has one or more 
balloons. When separated from the Nightbane, each balloon con-
tinues to register to any supernatural senses as that Nightbane 
for one hour. This can be used to create the equivalent of su-
pernatural decoys, sending pursuers off on wild goose chases or 
causing them to overestimate the number of Nightbane present. 
Penalties: -6 to the Spd attribute when there are two or more bal-
loons attached to the Nightbane (-2 if there is only one balloon 
attached), -3 to dodge, and the balloons are easy to spot, so -10% 
to Prowl and skills like Tailing, Disguise, and Undercover Ops 
are impossible.
61-70% Clown Gags: Part and parcel of almost any clown act 
are the gimmicks and gags used to garner laughs. A Nightbane 
with this feature may look like a clown or have subtle clown-like 
features along with 1D4+1 of the following gags that always ap-
pear on the Morphus. They may be worn, kept on a web-vest or 
inside pockets, tucked in a belt, carried in hand or slung over the 
shoulder in a cloth sack. However, these gimmicks are usually 
not concealed in any way.
Chatter Teeth: 1D4 sets of teeth (human or animal) that ani-
mate and chatter along the ground at a maximum speed of 5. They 
can also jump up to 8 feet (2.4 m) high to nip and bite opponents. 
Human-sized and smaller teeth inflict 1D6+1 bite damage while 
larger and sharper teeth may do up to 2D6+2 damage. Each set of 
chatter teeth has two attacks per melee round and is +3 to strike 
and +5 to dodge attacks against it.
Exploding Cigars: A package containing 1D4+3 normal look-
ing cigars. However, five seconds after being lit these cigars ex-
plode with a loud report. Anyone in a 20 foot (6 m) radius that 
isn’t wearing hearing protection loses one melee attack and is 
-2 on initiative for 1D4 melee rounds. If in someone’s mouth or 
slipped into a pocket or bag, or held in hand, the cigar does 1D4 
damage and blackens the face, hand or bag with soot. Exploding 
cigars are replaced at the rate of one per hour.
Extend-O-Glove: A large boxing glove at the end of an ex-
tendable armature, this odd device enables the Nightbane to 
deliver a punch to a target up to seven feet (2.1 m) beyond his 
normal reach. The Nightbane can dictate the amount of damage 
delivered by the glove’s punch: One point of damage (a playful 
bop), 1D6 damage, 2D6 damage or 4D6 damage. The character’s 
usual bonus to strike applies.
Fake Hand: This is a convincing facsimile of one of the Mor-
phus’ hands. Often used when shaking someone’s hand for a 
laugh, the fake hand can detatch to remain holding onto the per-
son who just shook hands or grabbed the Nightbane’s hand. It 
holds on until it can be pulled off, which takes 1D4 melee attacks 
to shake or pull loose. Until pulled off, the victim cannot use that 
hand to punch, hold a weapon or perform a skill. The fake hand 
can also be detached and animated to scurry over the ground or a 
piece of furniture to retrieve small items or to enter small spaces, 
slip through an open window to unlock a door, etc. The hand can 
crawl at a maximum speed of 7 and has a P.S. that is half that of 
the owner. To manipulate the fake hand, the Nightbane must be 
able to see it to control it with his mind. Maximum range is 60 
feet (18.3 m) with a clear line of sight. The fake hand is unable to 
punch, strike, or use a weapon, but the hand can grasp and cling 
to others, distracting and often creeping opponents out. The ap-
pendage has three attacks/actions per melee round and is +2 to 
dodge. A lost or destroyed hand reappears after the Nightbane 
returns to his Facade and back into his Morphus.
Toy Horn: This is a small, metal or plastic horn that resembles 
a miniature trumpet or bicycle horn with a squeeze bulb to make 
it honk. While it can be used purely for entertainment, once per 
melee it can unleash a foghorn-like blare which is accompanied 
by a powerful blast of air. This blast is sufficient to knock down 
human-sized targets within 10 feet (3 m) and send lightweight 
objects like loose papers, dry leaves, sawdust, and magazines fly-
ing up to 20 feet (6.1 m) away. The latter is done to cause confu-
sion or momentarily obscure the vision of an opponent. Targets 
must make a saving throw vs a 14 or lose initiative and one melee 
attack/action.
Toy Pistol: This may be a brightly colored, obviously toy 
gun, or a realistic-looking pistol that extends a little flag reading 
something like “POW!” “Boom!” or “Gotcha!” Alternatively, it 
might be a gun that produces a small pop and fires only confetti or 
streamers. That is, until the Nightbane sacrifices two Hit Points to 
temporarily allow the weapon to fire a real slug. This attack deals 
2D6+2 damage and has a range of 120 feet (36.6 m). Each real 
shot requires the sacrifice of two Hit Points that heal normally. 
Afterwards, it reverts back to its natural toy form.
Joy Buzzer: This small electric device is concealed in one of 
the palms of the Nightbane in Morphus. Upon contact with an-
other person it emits a loud buzz and a low-grade shock (does a 
single point of damage). Most often this is used when shaking 
hands with someone for the first time. The damage can be in-
creased by the Nightbane by temporarily burning Hit Points. Up 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
32
to 3 Hit Points can be spent in this manner per attack, with each 
H.P. adding 1D6 damage. Furthermore, anyone hit with a “juiced 
up” buzzer attack is at -1 on all combat rolls for one melee round.
Pie Case: A medium-sized satchel, duffle bag, purse or crate 
contains shaving cream pies. These are hurled into the faces of 
hapless marks just for laughs. If done for fun, the pie’s contents 
can simply be wiped or rinsed off, but the victim of a pie to the 
face is momentarily blinded until wiped from the eyes, and loses 
one melee attack. The Nightbane can elect to generate pies that 
cling like thick mud at the cost of one Hit Point. This forces the 
target to spend 1D4 attacks to clear the muck from his eyes and 
face. Otherwise, the victim is blinded, suffering the usual -10 
penalty to strike, parry, dodge, etc. The Nightbane is +2 to strike 
with either type of pie, with a maximum throwing range of 20 
feet (6 m). Throwing a pie in the face of a specific target requires 
a Called Shot, though it should be presumed that any pie is in-
tended for a shot to the face.
Squeak Mallet: This looks like a large, imposing gag hammer 
that squeaks when it strikes and does no damage. For the most 
part, it is used to playfully swat others or pop them on top of the 
head (no damage). Each blow is accompanied by some humorous 
sound effect such as a squeak or honk or fart noise. At will, the 
Nightbane can spend two Hit Points to turn the Squeak Mallet 
into a weapon capable of caving in a person’s skull! It remains 
a deadly weapon for one melee round per level of the Nightbane 
and each attack does 1D6+2 damage in addition to the character’s 
own Supernatural P.S. punch damage. This can be especially 
deadly if the opponent is only expecting one of the playful hits.
Squirt Flower: A fake-looking plastic flower pinned to the la-
pel discharges a small, four ounce (118 ml) stream of water when 
the hidden bulb is depressed. Harmless to most (if annoying), the 
water does 1D6 damage to vampires and other creatures vulner-
able to water. The Squirt Flower somehow never runs dry, mean-
ing it can be used to slowly fill canteens and the like with potable 
drinking water in the absence of other sources. By temporarily 
sacrificing one Hit Point, the flower can release a 10 ounce (2957 
ml) squirt of water or one of the following substances: blood (suf-
ficient to feed a vampire with multiple uses), ink (stains most 
cloth, paper, etc.), inorganic acid (does 2D6 damage to metal, 
concrete, and other non-organic substances), kerosene (highly 
flammable), or mace (victim is temporarily blinded and -10 to 
strike, parry, and dodge for 1D4 melee rounds). Bonuses: See 
items above. Penalties: -3 to the Spd attribute, -2D6 base P.P.E., 
-15% to Invoke Trust/Intimidate, and -10% to Prowl.
71-80% Jester’s Cap and Costume: The Morphus of this 
Nightbane is that of a jester with an odd, multi-pointed cap af-
fixed to the head. A bell may be attached to each point of the cap, 
or it could have some other decorative item like charms, rings, 
spikes, tiny skulls, bones or fingers. The cap and costume may be 
multi-colored, bright or ominously dark. Bonuses: +5% to any 
single Espionage and Rogue skill (pick one from each category). 
Penalties: -1 to the M.A. and M.E. attributes.
81-90% Scepter/Baton or Bowling Pin: A scepter or baton is 
a short staff or rod made of anything from wood to bone, to metal, 
and is almost always ornate. Some even include gems, bells or 
ribbons for added flair. Everyone should know what a bowling 
pin looks like. The Nightbane is able to perform numerous tricks 
with the item, spinning, flipping, juggling and balancing it on end 
or on one finger, his head or nose. In a pinch, it can be used as a 
blunt weapon that deals 1D6 damage in addition to a Supernatu-
ral P.S. punch damage and can parry melee attacks. Bonuses: +1 
attack when using only this item in combat for the entire melee 
round, +1 to strike in hand to hand combat or thrown, and +2 to 
parry and pull punch with the item. Penalties: -2 from permanent 
P.P.E. base.
91-00% Jack-in-the-Box: One of the oddest Morphus forms 
are those Nightbane who look like giant versions of the children’s 
toy known as a Jack-in-the-box. The upper half of the character’s 
body may look like a clown, a jester or inhuman, and has a hu-
manoid shape with arms, neck and head. The lower body from the 
waist down is a giant coiled spring covered in fabric, making it 
resemble an accordion, and is attached to a decorative box large 
enough for the Nightbane to hunker down into and close the flip 
top lid. The box may be colorful or ominous in its design but 
always has a circus, carnival or freak show vibe. There is also a 
winding key that when cranked, causes the box to play music un-
til the box lid pops open and the hidden Nightbane inside springs 
out. The Nightbane has full control over this, which means anoth-
er person cannot force the handle to turn and make the box open 
against his will. The Nightbane is also in control of the moment 
he chooses to pop out, making his appearance unpredictable and 
startling every time.
The extendable, accordion-like leg area enables a Jack-in-the-
Box Nightbane to stretch up to twice his normal height with an 
average of 12 feet (3.7 m). The character can also collapse to half 
of his normal height with an average of 3 feet (0.9) for the box, 
leaving little room inside for anything but the torso, a few weap-
ons and some personal equipment. The Jack-in-the-Box Night-
bane can twist his accordion-like legs attached to the inside of the 
box to turn 360 degrees and is so bendable that the Nightbane can 
invert the torso by bending in half. Movement is an interesting 
process, with the Jack-in-the-box having to hop like a person in 
a potato-sack race (reduce Spd by 70%!) or he can crawl, inch-
worm fashion, dragging the box behind him.
This toy anatomy also changes the way damage is dealt with. 
The body from the waist up can be specifically targeted and has 
Hit Points and S.D.C. as you would expect, but Hit Points and 
S.D.C. are divided evenly between the upper body and the box, 
which also has a Natural A.R. of 12. If the body is severed below 
the waist, the torso must crawl into the box portion to reattach, 
which takes one full melee round (15 seconds). Otherwise the 
Nightbane’s Morphus can only be made whole again by trans-
forming back into the Facade, which causes the box portion to 
disappear. Bonuses: +2 to the P.P. attribute, +1D6x10+60 to 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
33
S.D.C., the box has a Natural A.R. of 11, +2 to Horror Factor 
ONLY the first melee round that the Nightbane “pops out” of 
the box, +2 on initiative, a surprise attack occurs on a roll of a 
Natural 19 or 20, double damage on a surprise attack, +1 to strike 
and parry, +2 to dodge, and +1 to entangle. Coil jumps are pos-
sible by compressing the trunk then rapidly extending it and can 
propel the Nightbane 1.5 feet (0.5 m) per point of P.S. This can 
also be used to perform a power strike, which works just like 
a power punch (counts as two attacks). Penalties: The Spd at-
tribute is reduced by 70% and half that when crawling, -30% to 
Climbing, -50% to Dancing and Swimming, and some skills like 
Acrobatics, Bicycling, Disguise, Gymnastics, Prowl, Running, 
Tailing, Undercover Ops and driving most vehicles (no legs) are 
impossible in this Morphus form. Likewise, special kick attacks 
are impossible to perform.