Amphibian Table
This category covers frogs, toads and salamanders. Amphibians have long been part of arcane and occult lore, from quaint 
“ingredients” in witches’ brews to creatures attributed with a 
number of magical powers. Salamanders have often been associated with the element of fire, and toads and frogs, which nowadays are a subject of amusement, were once regarded with fear. 
Many stories about people being turned into frogs may have their 
roots in Nightbane phenomena. In most cases, Disguise, Seduction and Undercover Ops skills are impossible.
01-20% Full Amphibian: The Nightbane is shaped like a giant toad, frog or salamander, typically with the same length as 
his/her human Facade’s height. The creature cannot be confused 
for a normal member of the species due to its enormous size. 
Bonuses: +4 to P.S., +2 to P.P., +1 to P.E., +2D6x10 S.D.C. and 
+3 to Horror Factor.
If a toad, the character can jump 30 feet (9 m) from a standing position, and Swimming speed is the same as running speed.
If a frog, can jump 80 feet (24.4 m) from a standing position 
and swimming speed is double the running speed.
If a salamander, add +1D6 to running speed, and swimming 
speed is double.
In all cases, bite damage does 2D6, and most creatures have a 
long, prehensile tongue that can reach targets up to 20 feet (6 m) 
away. The character can also hold his breath underwater for 3D4 
minutes. There is a 10% chance that the Nightbane will have poisonous glands that cover his skin with a contact poison. Exposure 
to the poison (touch with bare skin) inflicts a red rash and does 
3D6 S.D.C. damage (to human and supernatural characters) unless a save versus lethal poison is successful. A good save means 
a small rash and only 1D6 damage.
21-45% Were-Amphibian: A barely humanoid frog-man/
amphibian, with overlong fingers and smooth, moist skin (dry 
and lumpy if a toad). The head is that of a full frog, toad or salamander. Bonuses: +3 to P.S., +1 to P.P., +1 to P.E., 2D4x10 
S.D.C., the character can jump 30 feet (9.1 m) from a standing 
position, and up to 40 feet (12.2 m) with a running start, Swimming speed is double the character’s running speed, can hold his 
breath underwater for 2D4 minutes, and +1D4 to Horror Factor. 
Bite damage does 2D4, and most creatures have a long, prehensile tongue that can reach targets up to 15 feet (4.6 m) away. 
There is a 10% chance that the Nightbane will have poisonous 
glands that cover his skin with a contact poison. Exposure to the 
poison (touch with bare skin) inflicts a red rash and does 2D6 
S.D.C. damage (to human and supernatural characters) unless 
a save versus lethal poison is successful. A good save means a 
small rash and only 1D4 damage.
46-70% Amphibian Humanoid: The Nightbane has humanoid features, and his basic shape is roughly human, so that 
the character might hide his deformities under bulky clothing and head covering. The leg shape is still impossibly bowlegged, the fingers and toes are webbed, and the character has 
a crouched posture most the time, as if getting ready to leap 
– all of this will inevitably attract attention. Bonuses: +2 to 
P.S., +1 to P.P. and P.E., 1D4x10 S.D.C., can leap 15 feet (4.6 
m), swim at 50% faster than running speed, hold breath for 
1D6 minutes, and +2 to Horror Factor. Bite attack does 1D6 
damage.
71-80% Amphibian Centauroid: The Nightbane has the 
upper torso of a humanoid shaped frog, toad or salamander, 
and the lower body of a salamander, including four legs and 
a long tail. Bonuses: +4 to P.S., +1 to P.P., +2 to P.E., and 
+2D6x10 S.D.C. Swimming speed is double running speed, 
can also hold his breath underwater for 2D4 minutes, and 
+1D4 to Horror Factor. Bite damage does 2D4, and most creatures have a long, prehensile tongue that can reach targets up 
to 10 feet (3 m) away. There is a 10% chance that the Nightbane will have poisonous glands that cover his skin with a 
contact poison. Exposure to the poison (touch with bare skin) 
inflicts a red rash and does 2D6 S.D.C. damage (to human 
and supernatural characters) unless a save versus lethal poison 
is successful. A good save means a small rash and only 1D4 
damage.
81-00% Amphibian Head: A normal looking human with the 
head of a frog, toad or salamander! Bonuses: Bite inflicts 3D6 
damage. The Nightbane has a long, prehensile tongue that can 
reach targets up to 15 feet (4.6 m) away, can hold breath underwater for 1D4 minutes and +1 to Horror Factor.