=== index 172 ===
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

=== index 173 ===
Nightlords as their delegate s. The ancient legends indica te that 
the first Ba'a l were relatively few in number, perhaps less than a 
hundred all told. Yet, they have somehow grown in numbers 
over the centuries. There are a few rumors that indica te that the 
Nightlords can reproduce in some arcane fashion; maybe some­
times their Avatars become independent, or perhaps the Night 
Princes grow in power until they become true Ba'a l. More 
likely, they have been "recruiting" new members on Earth from 
among the ranks of sorcerers and cultists . The process seems to 
take a long time, however; the "younge st" known Nightlord is 
said to have crossed over in 1, 200 B.C. Most of them appear to 
have become Ba'a l as far back as tO, OOO years ago, the times 
when the earliest cities were built (the oldest known city in ar­
cheologica l records, Jericho, was built sometime in 9,0 00 B.c.). 
In most Nightbane campaigns, Nightlords and even their 
Avatars should be seldom, if ever, encountered directly. They 
are the arch-villains of the world, and even the most experienced 
and powerful Nightbane bands would be almost hopelessly out­
matched. An entire campaign could lead to a climactic duel with 
a Nightlord after the characters somehow managed to evade or 
overcome the many layers of defense between the creature and 
his enemies. More likely , the most the Nightbane can hope to ac­
complish is to hinder the Nightlords' plans, and perhaps force 
them to return to their dark world. What ever the possible out­
come, it will be a long, hard road fraught with danger, treachery 
and subterfuge. 
The Powers of the Nightlords 
The Ba'a l do not bother to learn magic spells; they see magic 
as a cheap, crude way to manipulate reality - an art beneath 
their contempt. Instead, the Nightlords can manipulate matter, 
energy and the mind at will ! They are limited only by the psy­
chic energy (P.P.E.) needed to effect the transformations by their 
own imaginations and force of will. Through the use of their 
powers, they have built their great citi es, created such servant 
races as the Hounds and Hunters, and even given life to lesser 
versions of themselves, the Avatars. These powers render the 
Nightlords nearly invu lnerable against conven tional weapons 
and even magic spells. 
Besides the powers over physical reality , the Nightlords are 
linked to the thoughts and emotions of Humankind. They obtain 
much of their power from this psychic link, and it may have 
been the desire to strengthen this link that motivated the Dark 
Day invasion. The Nightlords are able to enter the dreams of 
sensitive humans, sending their Astral Avatars (see below) to 
disturb, frighten or sometimes recruit the occas ional mortal. The 
Ba'a l are instinctively attracted to large human gatherings, so it 
is no coinc idence that the great cities of the Nightlands are in the 
same place as the ones on Earth. For millennia, the Nightlords 
have fed on the P.P.E. "run-off' coming from Earth into the 
Nightlands. 
The Avatars 
The Nightlords have the ability to create avatars , semi-inde­
pendent creations that share the same personality and thoughts 
of their creator. This may be a more powerful version of the 
Split tin ' Image Nightbane talent (see the Talents Section) or a 
separate power altogether. Avatars are not as powerful as their 
creators, so they can be more easily destroyed. Yet they are still 
very powerful, able to fight and destroy most lone Nightbane 
173 
and to stand against a whole band of supernatural beings. A va­
tars are used as war leaders, spies and representative s. They can 
be shaped in any way the Nightlord desires. Many world leaders 
(including president Douglas Carson) have been replaced by an 
Avatar of the Nightlords. 
There are two types of Avatar. Physical Avatars are solid 
beings made of supernatural flesh and bone . Astra l Avatars are 
creatures of pure psychic energy, able to enter dreams and 
minds. Both are incredibly dangerous and as evil and intelligent 
as their creators. Astral Avatars are the equiv alent of the creation 
of the Astral Projection psionic power, but it is not linked to the 
Nightlord via the "silver cord" and is fully independent, able to 
travel in the Astral Plane, coexist with the physical plane, and 
contact beings in other dimensions or worlds. 
When creating an Avatar, the Nightlord bestows upon it some 
of his own life force. This gift does not harm or diminish the 
Nightlord unless the Avatar is somehow killed. Destroying an 
Avatar is painful and severely weakens the Nightlord. When one 
of his Avatars is destroyed, the Nightlord loses the equiva lent of 
all the Avatar 's S.D.C., hit points and P.P.E. ! This damage is 
healed very slowly (l point each every hour) . Most Nightlords 
do not make more than two or three Avatars, because if they cre­
ate too many, and they are all destroyed, the resulting backlash 
might be enough to kill the Nightlord! For that reason, most po­
sitions of leadership are left in the hands of the Night Princes or 
other minions. 
Nig htlord R.C.C. 
Note : Nightlords are NPC villai ns; power and their thor­
oughly corrupt nature make them totally unfit as player charac ­
ters. 
The attributes in parentheses are typical for Avatars. 
Natural Abilities of the Nightlords : 
1. Su pernatural Abiliti es: Despite their usual human appear­
ance, the Nightlords are supernatural being s. They regenerate 
damage at an amazing rate of 20 S.D.C /hit points at the end of 
every melee round! Their Avatars heal 2D6 S.D.C. /hit points per 
melee round. 
Both the Nightlords and their Avatars take only half damage 
from all non-magical weapons and attacks (both physical and 
energy; magic does full damage) . They have incredible senses 
and are able to see the inv isible (and through any masking, 
camouflage or illusio nary powers), sense ley lines and nexus 
points (range : 1 mile/l .6 km per level of experience) and have 
perfect nightv ision (can see in total darkness, range 2000 
feet/6tO m). Although Nightlords can pass as normal humans, 
they can, at will, "unmask" their supernatural aura. This aura 
automatically causes mere mortals to save versus a Horror Fac­
tor of 18 as they sense the immense power and evil emanating 
from the Nightlord. 
2. Life Force Vampiri sm: The Nightlords are energy vam­
pires who do not need normal food or water to survive. Instead, 
they depend on the life force of living things. Humans and 
Nightbane are the best source of sustenance; the denizens of 
the Nightlands are, in the words of a Nightlord, "wea k and foul-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

=== index 174 ===
tasting," enough to keep a Nightlord alive but not happy. Night­
lords prefer their "food" to be flavored by pain and terror. 
Therefore, their favorite form of feeding consists of torturing 
victims to death. The traditional way to offer a sacrifice to the 
Nightlords is to throw a live victim into a large bonfire! This 
feeding pr ocess requires a helpless victim; Nightlords cannot 
feed in combat. 
The feeding process takes one minute . Up to 50 hit points or 
P.P.E. can be absorbed during that minute . Human and Night­
bane hit points and P.P.E. replenish the Nightlords' needs on a 
one to one basis (i.e., one hit point or P.P.E. stolen from a human 
or Nightbane will grant the Nightlord one P.P.E. point of suste­
nance) . On the other hand, Dopplegangers, Hounds and Squir es 
used in this manner only "produce" one P.P.E. point for every 10 
hit points or P.P.E. absorbed. The Nightlord needs to consume a 
minimum of 20 P.P.E. in this manner every day. If not, those 20 
P.P.E. are subtracted from the monster's energy base, reducing it 
20 points every day until it can be replenished. Since most 
Nightlords have at least 1, 000 P.P.E., they could survive almost 
two months without feeding, but their power would diminish 
enormously. When their P.P.E. base is reduced to zero, they lose 
1 P.E. point per day; if P.E. is also reduced to zero, the Nightlord 
will crumble into dust. It is possible that this will not truly de­
stroy the Nightlords and they can return to life if the energy be­
comes available and the conditions are right. 
Nightlords who fall dangerously low in power function at half 
their normal capacity (half attacks per melee round, half S.D.C., 
half bonuses, and half speed). To replenish themselves quick ly, 
they may engage in a frenzy of torture and murder, gorging on 
hundreds of P.P.E. and hit points every day until back to full 
strength or an acceptable level . Most try never to fall into such a 
state of dereliction. 
3. Matter and Energ y Co ntrol: The Nightlords have powers 
over inanimate matter and energy that transcend normal magic 
and psionic powers. They are said to be able to control reality it­
self; this is a bit of an exaggeration. However, by using P.P.E. 
they can reshape, alter, melt and destroy inanimate objects at 
will. 
They can also use rituals, willing participants, unwilling sacri­
fices, mass slaughter, ley lines and ley line nexus to produce ad­
ditional P.P.E. to be harnessed and used to reshape or destroy 
matter. Given enough time and power, Nightlords can create or 
destroy entire cities ! 
Each use of this power counts as two melee attacks/action, re­
quires line of sight to be used (with a maximum range of one 
mile/1 .6 km). 
Note : Living beings are immune to this power. This includ es 
"biomechanical" Nightbane and cybernetic systems attached to 
and/or implanted in living beings (for that matter, anything cov­
ered or contained inside living matter). 
Magical weapons and artifacts are also unaffected by the 
Nightlords' powers. 
The fo llowing abilities fall under this incredible pow er: 
Reshape Matter: The Nightlord can mold inanimate matter 
(metals, stones, and any mineral or synthetic substance) at will 
as if it were soft clay. The cities of the Nightlords were built in 
this way. The shape can be anything the Nightlord desires; i.e., 
he can twist a gun into a pretzel, but the matter' s structure re-
174 
mains the same -the pretzel will still be made of metal). Cost: 
One P.P.E. per 5 pounds (2.3 kg) of matter. 
Melt Matter: The Nightlord causes solid matter to assume a 
liquid state. In the case of most metals and solid minerals, this 
means the matter will become incredibly hot ! Any matter will 
suddenly heat to its "melting point." Anybody holding a metal 
object thus melted will take 3D6 S.D.C. bum damage (2D4x lO 
if body armor or a vehicle is melted on top of the character) . 
Cost: One P.P.E. per pound (0.45 kg) of matter (so melting a 
two ton car costs 4000 P.P.E. points). 
Transform Matter: This aspect of the power allows the Night­
lord to change lead into gold, plastic into iron, etc ., and vice 
versa! They can transform guns into candy, and wine into nitro­
glycerin. Cost: 20 P.P.E. per pound (0.45 kg) of matter trans­
formed. The transformation is permanent, unle ss the fiend 
spends energy to change it back. Remember, living beings and 
organic matter cannot be affected. 
Matter-Energy Meld: Nightlords can "attach" matter and en­
ergy to their own bodies, giving themselves monstrous but very 
powerful shapes. Each 10 P.P.E. spent in this manner will add 20 
S.D.C. to the Nightlord (usually in the form of metallic armor, 
rocky growths, and so on). Also, the Nightlords can surround 
themselves in an aura of fire, crackling electricity , or other forms 
of energy. These energy auras provide 10 S.D.C. worth of pro­
tection for every 10 P.P.E. spent. Furthermore, the energy will 
bum anyone who touches or comes within 10 feet (3.0 m) of 
him. Damage is equal to ID 6 for every 10 S.D.C. spent. The 
Matter-Energy Meld lasts one hour; at the end of it, the Night­
lord can spend more P.P.E. to renew it. 
This power can also be used to make himself invuln erable to 
all forms of energy attack, except magic, at a P.P.E. cost of 10 
points per every 10 minutes. 
Or the supernatural power can use energy (fire, electricity, la­
sers, etc.) to make himself more physically powerful and gia nt­
sized by conv erting the energy into mass. Every 10 points of 
energy/S .D.C. damage actually gives the Nightlord one addi­
tional S.D.C. point, one pound of mass, and six inches (0.15 m) 
in height. Thus, enduring a total of 10 0 points of damage from 
energy blasts or fire, etc., increases the monster's S.D.C. by 10 
points, mass by 10 0 pounds (45 kg), and height by three feet (0.9 
m). 10 00 S.D.C. points of damage would be lO x that amount. 
Howeve r, the Nightlord must expend 5 P.P.E. points for every 
10 points of energy funneled into his system, so 10 00 S.D.C. en­
ergy damage will cost him 200 P.P.E. points. 
Disperse Energy : Nightlords can disperse energy harmlessly 
around themselves. Fire, heat and radiation can be rendered use­
less against them. It is said that a Nightlord with enough power 
available could dance unharmed in the corona of a star, or with­
stand a nuclea r explosion ! One hopes these are exaggerations. 
Cost: Every 10 P.P.E. points expended will harmlessly disperse 
up to 10 0 S.D.C. points of energy/S .D.C. damage. 10 00 points 
can dispel 10 ,000 S.D.C. points of energy damage. Th is effect 
lasts for one minute after the power is activated. Note : Does not 
affect magical and psionic energies, including Nightbane Talents 
and the Guardians' energy powers. 
Release Energy: This power enables the character to unleash 
large amounts of pure energy in the form of fire/plasma, electric­
ity, or light/laser blas ts. These energy blasts inflict ID 6 S.D.C. 
per every 2 P.P.E. spent. Cost: 2 P.P.E. per die of damage (i.e. , a 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

=== index 175 ===
blast doing 4D6x lO S.D.C. would cost 80 P.P.E. ). The Nightlord 
is at +3 to strike with these blasts. 
The Nightlord can also create walls of fire, circles of fire, 
electrical fields, electro-magnetic fields, etc. Cost: 10 P.P.E. per 
20 foot (6 m) radius (those who try to pass through the energy 
wall or field suffer 6D6 damage). Lik ewise, the villain can cre­
ate the equiv alent of the following spells at a cost of four P.P.E. 
each , at 10 th level power! Globe of daylight, blinding flash, ig­
nite fire, fuel flame, fire bolt, extinguish fire, circle of flame, and 
energy disruption. 
Manipulate Dimensional Energies: The Nightlords can also 
control dimensional energies, such as what is needed to open 
and close Rifts, open dimensional portals, teleport, and so on. 
All Nightlords have the equiv alent of the spells, Close Rifts, Di­
mensional Portal, Teleport: Su perior, Fly, Float in the Air, and 
Time Slip. Cost: Sa me as each respective spell. 
Telekine sis: Ba sically the same as the sp ell, only the range , 
weight, duration, and damage are increased 10 . Cost : xlO P.P.E. 
4. Sense Dimensional Disturb ances: Nightlords are attuned to 
mystic al energies, and can sense the presence/appearance, open­
ing and closing of Rifts, dimensional portals/doorways, telepor­
tation spells, dimensional anomalies, and similar magic al! 
supernatural effects, at a range of 5 miles (8 km) per level of ex­
perience. 
5. Breach the Mirrorwa ll: Before Dark Day, the Ba'a l were 
imprisoned in the Nightlands . Only their minions or astral A va­
tars could vi sit the Earth, and the former only if they were sum­
moned by evil magicia ns. The resulting effects of that day have 
allowed them to escape their ancient prison, and to send out their 
minions in great numbers. The NightIords can cross the Mirror­
wall by spending 10 P.P.E. and concentrating for one minute (4 
melee rounds). This power cannot be used in combat. Also, the 
Nightlord can send any number of minions to Earth by spending 
5 P.P.E. per minion. This process also takes one minute (4 me­
lees). 
Alignme nt: Any evil (most are Diabolic). 
Attributes : I.Q. 3D6+ 12 , M.E. 3D6+ 12 , M.A. 3D6+ 12 , P.S. 
3D6+30 (3D6+20), P.P. 2D6+ 16 (2D6+ 14 ), P.E. 3D6+12 
(2D6+ 12 ), P.B . 3D6+6 (varies), Spd. 1D 6xlO (1D 4 x 10 ). 
The mental attributes of the Avatar are the same as the Night­
lord. 
Size : Varie s, typically within the human range. 
S.D.C .: 3D6x 1 00+500 (1D 4x 10 0+ 10 0 for the Avatars) 
Hit Points : P.E. times the level of experience ! (P.E. plus 
ID 6xlO for the Avatars) 
175 
Horror Factor : 18 when they unmask their aura of fear and 
power (14 for the Avatars). 
P.P .E.: 2D6x 10 0 +10 00, plus 50 per level of experience 
(1D 6x 10 0 +20 per level of experience for Avatars). 
Combat: Typically Hand to Hand: Martial Arts or Assassin. 
Damage : Supernatural Strength. Also see powers, above (see 
the Supern atural Strength Tabl e). 
Bonuses : +3 on ini tiative, +5 on all perception rolls, + 1 to parry 
and dodge, +4 to roll/pull punch, +6 to save vs magic, + 10 to 
save vs horror factor. These bonuses do not include skill or 
attribute bonuses. 
Magic Pow ers : Ample knowledge in the use and limits of 
magic. Nightlords used to be sorcerers, but disdain the use of 
magic, preferring to rely on their powers over matter and en­
ergy. 
Psionic Pow ers : None, other than the formidable natural abili­
ties listed previous . 
Average Life Span : Unknow n, presumed to be immortal. 
Experience Level : Average 2D4+5. An Avatar will typically be 
half that level. 
Vulnerabil ities/P enalties : Nightlords and their Avatars take tri­
ple damage from all attacks at the hands of Nightbane and 
Guardian s, and double damage from attacks from any other 
supernatural creatures (including vampires and wampyrs). 
R.C.C. Skills : Occult Lore and knows all languages at 98% 
(many will be ancient/archaic tongues), most Nightlords will 
also have 10 -20 additional skills at +20% from any skill cate­
gory due to their centuries of life experience. 
Alliances and Allies : Each Nightlord commands an army of at 
least 10 0 Hounds , 10 Hunters and 10 Hollow Men and 5-10 
Ashmedai . The average Nightlord commands ten to twenty 
times as many troops, and the more powerful ones ten to 
twenty times above the average ! 
Weapons and Equipme nt: Some Nightlords wield ancient arti­
facts and/or magic weapons and armor, but most of them dis­
dain the use of weapons (unless extremely powerful), 
preferring to rely on their own powers. 
Ba' al- Zebul R.C.C . 
The Night Princes (aka Squires) 
The chief lieutenants of the Nightlords are the Night Princes 
(or Ba' al-Zebul). They are human-looking beings with incred­
ible powers of illusion. So me ancient writings refer to both the 
Nightlords and their "princes" or "squires" as the Ba'a l. Perhaps 
the Ba' al-Zebul are lesser Nightlords, or valued servants who 
have been "gifted" with the power to deceive and confuse men. 
For millennia, the Night Princes have crossed over to Earth to 
manipulate, abuse and control humans. They helped keep the 
Cult of Eternal Night alive on Earth, and fooled hundreds of 
mortals into secretly worshipping the Ba'a l. Some of the legends 
about tempting demonic beings may be related to the Ba'a l-Ze­
buls ' activities. Their main purpose is to fool Earthlings, since 
most of the Nightlords' other minions are immune to illusi onary 
powers. Their abilities and human-like appearance make them 
ideal agents and infiltrators. A few Ba' al-Zebul on Earth are 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

=== index 176 ===
masquerading as movie stars, wealthy jet-setters, corporate offi­
cers, political advisors and other high-society types. They often 
started Cults of Night among the rich and powerful, promising 
jaded socia lites enormous power and pleasures. A number of 
Night Princes manipulated hundreds of powerful humans into 
supporting the Preserver Party and other Nightlord-controlled 
groups throughout the world. They continue to establish them­
selves in key positions to help the Nightlords' takeover of the 
planet. The Ba' al-Zebul are also used as war leaders, and have a 
higher rank than all other minions except the Avatars of the 
Nightlords. 
A few Ba' al-Zebul have gone renegade , usually because their 
power-hunger has prompted them to betray their overlords. 
These renegades are no less evil than the Ba'a l, just less power­
ful. They often take control of a cult or some secret organiza tion, 
or peddle their services as mercenaries or try to ingratiate them­
selves with rival Nightlords and supernatural powerhouses in ex­
change for more power. There are rumors that some Night 
Princes actually have turned against the Nightlords and their 
plans. 
G.M.'s Note : It might be possible to allow player character 
Night Princes. However, this is discouraged for a number of rea­
sons. Although the Night Princes are not overwhelmingly pow­
erful compared to Nightbane, their twist ed, self-serving nature 
(they are energy vampires, after all) and their terrible reputations 
will make them difficult to fit in most Nightbane campaigns. 
Most Nightbane and human factions will destroy Night Princes 
on sight, as will vampires, wampyrs and guardians. 
176 
Night Squires are typically low level Night Princes who have 
yet to distinguish themselves. 
Natural Abilities of the Night Prince or Squ ire : 
1. Super natural Attribut es : The Ba' al-Zebul are inhuman 
beings who heal damage at the supernatural rate of 1D 4x lO 
S.D.C. /hit points every minute/4 melees, and have the following 
abilit ies : see the inv isible and all illusions (including those cre­
ated by another Night Prince), impervious to mind control of any 
kind, nightv ision (range: 500 feet/152 m), sense the pr esence of 
ley lines and nexus points (range: 1 mile/1 .6 km), and does not 
need to eat, drink or breathe air. 
2. Energy Vampires : Like their masters, the Night Princes 
are energy vampires who need to feed on the life force of other 
livin g being s. Five hit points or P.P.E. a day will keep a Night 
Prince "fed," although they will not feel happy and truly satis­
fied unless they consume at least 10 -20 a day. Every time the 
fiend misses a "meal," he or she loses 1 P.P.E. point, which can 
only be restored after getting an extra 5 P.P.E/Hit points the next 
time he/she feeds. When P.P.E. is reduced to zero, the Ba' al-Ze­
bul loses 1 Physical Endurance (P.E.) point and crumbles to dust 
when his/her P.E. is reduced to zero. 
3. Illusionary Pow ers: The Ba' a1-Zebul are masters of creat­
ing constructs of magical energy. These constructs are not real, 
but can be convincing enough to deceive, terrify and even harm 
victims. Each illusi on costs different amounts of P.P.E. depend­
ing on how powerful, large or effective the illusion is. So me ex­
amples of illusi ons and their P.P.E. cost are given below . The 
Game Master can use them as guidelines to determine other illu­
sions and P.P.E. costs. The range for these powers is 10 0 feet 
(30.5 m) plus 20 feet (6.1 m) per level of experience. The size of 
an illusion is equal to 10 cubic feet (0.3 cu m.) per level of expe­
nence. 
All these illus ionary powers can be resisted and seen through 
with a save against magic, but only when the target/victim has a 
reason to suspect the illusion is not real. To sense whether or not 
something is not "right" with the illusion, a perception roll can 
be attempted. The more involved illusions (those affecting at 
least three senses) are the hardest to resist, make a Difficult Per­
ception roll or worse; the G.M. 's discretion. 
Sound and minor (soundless) visual images cost only 2 
P.P.E. per minute, and affect everybody in auditive or vi sual 
range. 
A combination of sound and image, or an illusion of smell 
costs 5 P.P.E. per minute (4 melee rounds). 
Image, sound and odor combined, or an illusion of touch 
(including tempera ture and texture) costs 10 P.P.E. per min­
ute. 
Full sensory illusions (combine all five sense s); costs 20 
P.P.E. per minute (4 melee rounds). 
An entire panorama affecting an area equal to twice the nor­
mal size, and with full details, such as a forest complete with im­
ages, sounds and odors. Costs 60 P.P.E. per minute (4 melee 
rounds). 
Horror Factor of any illusion has a base H.F. of 10 , + 1 for 
every 3 additional P.P.E. points spent (this is in addition to the 
illusion cost) . The maximum Horror Factor for any such illusion 
is 18. For example, a Night Prince wishing to create a demonic 
entity that affected all 5 senses and had a Horror Factor of 18 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

