Alien Shape Table 
This category covers a wide variety of unusual shapes and 
forms that occasionally manifest in some Nightbane. Players are 
welcome to determine or guess what dark elements of their char­
acter's souls or subconscious are embodied in any of the alien 
forms listed below. 
01-12% Plasmoid: The Nightbane's body has a semi-liquid 
consistency; he's made up of jelly-like blood! The basic shape of 
the character remains that of a bipedal humanoid (it can even 
have the exact outline of his Facade), but it can be changed at 
will, stretched, spread or even puddled into any shape the char­
acter wills. The character can squeeze through narrow openings 
103 
(even a couple of inches will do!), slip out of restraints and con­
ceal himself as a glob or goo. Add 4D6 to S.D.C. and all physi­
cal attacks do half damage. Add 1D6 to Horror Factor. 
13-24% Bark-like Skin: The character looks like a bizarre 
combination of a tree and human, with bark instead of skin, and 
often with leaves or vines instead of hair! Add 1D4x1O to S.D.C. 
and 1D4 to Horror Factor. 
25-37% Bony Exoskeleton: The Nightbane is covered with 
bone-like plates or large scales, often with horn-like protrusions 
and short spikes. Add ID6x1O to S.D.C. and ID6 S.D.C. to all 
hand to hand damage. Add 1D4 to Horror Factor. 
38-45 % Thorns: Thorns protrude from the character's body! 
They may appear to be natural growths, or they might be stig­
mata-like, appearing to painfully pierce the character's skin! 
Add 4D6 to S.D.C. and 1D4 to Horror Factor. 
46-54% Crystalline: The character looks predominately hu­
man, but has crystals that resemble quartz or diamonds growing 
out of his skin along the fingers, the bones of the hands, along 
the back of the arm, up and down the spine and at the elbow, 
shoulders and knees. The head can look completely human or 
the hair can be replaced with a cap of crystals or a crown of tall, 
jutting crystal. Add 2D4x1O to the S.D.C., heat and fire does 
half damage, and the character can parry bladed weapons and 
fiery torches with his bare hands. The fingernails are replaced by 
jagged crystal that slash doing ID6 S.D.C. plus punch damage, 
and the crystal encrusted hands function similar to brass knuck­
les, adding 1D6 S.D.C. to punch damage. Furthermore, in bright 
light, the Nightbane glitters like a gem and may ( 1-60% chance) 
blind all who look at him from the reflected light. Add 2 points 
to Horror Factor. 
55-66 % Living Tattoos: The Nightbane's skin is covered 
with tattoos. Unlike normal body decorations, however, these 
tattoos change and move! The changes may reflect the charac­
ter's current state of mind (Le., an angry Nightbane might sud­
denly display violent or threatening tattoos) or might be control­
led directly by the character (50-50 chance or select one). In the 
first case, the Nightbane has no control over the tattoos; they re­
act to his emotions and may start squirming at any given mo­
ment. Add 1D6 to Horror Factor whenever someone notices the 
moving tattoos. 
67-77% Unusual Skin Color: The Nightbane's skin has an 
inhuman hue. The color is too intense and sharp to be normal, 
body paint or dyes. Colors can include shades of yellows, reds, 
greens, blues, purple/violets, copper, gold, metallic grey, silver, 
pitch black, and stark white. Roll or pick one. Add 1 point to 
Horror Factor. 
78-85 % Hulking Monster: The character transforms into a 
huge, hulking brute with a large barrel chest, hunched back, long 
gorilla-like arms, and a comparatively tiny (human-sized) head. 
The face may be human, alien, animal, or monstrous in appear­
ance. The misshapened hulk stands 1D6+6 feet tall (and that's 
with a hunched back), and weighs 80 pounds (36.3 kg) per every 
foot (0.3 m) of height! Bonuses: + 1D6x1O to S.D.C., + 1D4 to 
P.S., +2 to roll with fall or impact and add 1D4 to Horror Factor. 
However, reduce the character's speed by 10%. 
86-95 % Mouth-Covered Body! The Nightbane's body is 
covered by 2D6x1O tiny mouths! The mouths can make ges­
tures, stick out their tongues, whistle, hoot, growl or even 
scream in a hellish chorus (adds 3 to Horror Factor when all of 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
them are screaming or screeching at once)! However, they can­
not speak. The character can also grapple an enemy and let the 
tiny mouths bite him (this inflicts ID4 damage per mouth; typi­
cally ID6 mouths will bite at the same time). Add ID4+2 to 
Horror Factor. 
96-00% Combination of Two: Roll twice more (ignore and 
reroll any result of 96 or higher), and then combine the results. 