Angelic Table
Characters with this Morphus often believe they were chosen
by the deity they worship or some other benevolent supernatural
power for a purpose, such as to fight evil, protect the innocent,
drive away the Nightlords, to serve as an example for others,
and so on. Such ‘Bane usually have great faith and a strong
sense of goodness, right and wrong. Most are of good alignment
and try to fulfill their purpose.
The physical appearance varies depending on the cultural
and/or religious background of the Nightbane, and all don’t look
human. Regardless of their appearance, many Nightbane do not
get along well with an Angelic ‘Bane, as they see them as arro-
gant or as a mockery of their own beliefs. On the other hand,
members of the Lightbringers (and Guardians, in general) tend
to accept them.
01-10% Inner Light: The character glows with an inner
brilliance that seems to radiate from under his skin. This charac-
ter may also have a halo around his head. Ordinary people are
either in awe of the Nightbane or fear him out of ignorance. Bo-
nuses: +1 to M.A. and M.E., +4D6 S.D.C., +2 to Awe/Horror
Factor and laser and energy blasts do no damage. Penalty: Can-
not Prowl or hide at night or in shadow, glows like a beacon.
11-20% Angelic Wings: The ‘Bane has a beautiful pair of
6-10 foot (1.8-3 m) feathered wings sprouting from his or her
back. The feathers can be any color, solid or a mixture of 2-3
colors, and even metallic colors (exact colors are left up to the
player), and each wing has 1D6x10+50 S.D.C., regenerate at the
same rate as the Nightbane (will grow back in one day if de-
stroyed), can hover, glide (silent) and provide a flight speed of
1D4x10+26 (25-45 mph/40-72 km). Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C.,
+1 to P.P., +1D4 to P.B., +1 to strike and parry, +2 to dodge and
pull punch while in flight, and +3 to Awe/Horror Factor. Pen-
alty: -20% to Prowl on foot, cannot use disguise or perform un-
73
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
dercover work in angel form (unless it is as another angel), and
requires custom clothing to accommodate the wings.
21-30% Melodious Voice: Talented singers are sometimes
said to have a “voice like an angel,” but this ‘Bane puts them to
shame. Whenever the character speaks, those around him listen.
His voice also has a calming effect on even the most angry or
beleaguered souls, and to hear him sing is to be left speechless
(also all who hear the singing are so distracted by it that Percep-
tion Rolls are -10, -2 on initiative and -15% on skill perfor-
mance. Bonuses: +1D4 to M.A., +1 to Awe/Horror Factor, and
+20% to any skill that involves speaking, performance or sing-
ing. Penalty: Vulnerable to sonic attacks (they inflict 50%
greater damage and penalties are double).
31-37% Living Armor: The Morphus appears as a suit of
impressive, polished armor. The armor may be highly ornate
with etched graphics or designs, spikes or spines, to simplistic
or without decoration at all. A helmet is optional and can be re-
moved, but the rest of the armor cannot; it is part of the
Nightbane. Bonuses: Regardless of its appearance, +4D6x10
S.D.C., a Natural A.R. of 14, +1 to P.S., and +1D4 to Awe/Hor-
ror Factor. Penalties: -10% on all skills involving flexibility of
movement (Acrobatics, Climbing, Prowl, Swimming, etc.), dou-
ble the character’s weight, -30% to Disguise skill, and cannot be
easily concealed without something bulky like a cloak, poncho,
or oversized overcoat or trench coat, which might be nearly as
conspicuous.
38-44% Living Holy Weapon: In his Morphus the ‘Bane
possesses a gleaming weapon of exquisite craftsmanship. The
type of weapon and its decoration vary with the tastes of the
‘Bane, but is always an ancient weapon (01-25% short sword,
26-50% large sword, 51-70% battle axe, 71-85% mace or other
blunt weapon, 86-00% pole arm, scythe, pitchfork or other large
weapon). The Nightbane also has a scabbard, sling or case for
the weapon so that he doesn’t need to hold it in his hands all the
time. This weapon may be lent to others, dropped, or stolen, but
it will disappear when the ‘Bane switches back to Facade form
and reappear with him when he assumes his Morphus the next
time. The weapon is a living part of the character. Bonuses: +2
to Awe/Horror Factor, the weapon does 4D6 damage regardless
of type, +14 damage to Nightlords, their minions, demons,
undead, and other supernatural creatures; half damage to crea-
tures of magic, and +1 on initiative, +2 to strike, +3 to parry,
disarm and pull punch with the Holy Weapon (plus any applica-
ble attribute or skill bonuses). Penalties: Prefers to use this
weapon above all others and feels naked without it, and the
weapon is likely difficult to conceal or hide. The Holy Weapon
has 40 S.D.C. +10 per level of experience, but the ‘Bane feels
any attacks leveled against the weapon, and he takes damage or
feels the effect after the weapon’s S.D.C. is reduced to one point
or less, as it is a living part of him; damage is inflicted to the
weapon only when it its specifically targeted. When the S.D.C.
of the Holy Sword and his own S.D.C. are both reduced to zero,
the weapon vanishes and cannot be made to reappear until the
character recovers all of his own S.D.C. Most outsiders do not
know about this vulnerability.
45-51% Living Holy Shield: A shield appears strapped on
one arm (or suitable appendage) or slung on the back of the
Nightbane when in Morphus form. The sheild’s appearance may
vary from ornate to plain. Bonuses: +1 to M.A. and P.P., +5D6
S.D.C. to the Nightbane, +1 to strike and disarm, +3 to parry
and pull punch with the shield (in addition to any applicable at-
tribute or skill bonuses). The shield has 100 S.D.C., is only
damaged by attacks that specifically target it, and regenerates at
the same rate as the Nightbane. Should the shield be destroyed,
it vanishes and does not return for 24 hours. Penalties: The
weapon is difficult to conceal or hide and is definitely conspicu-
ous in hand.
52-60% Heroic Proportions: In his Morphus, the Nightbane
is tall, has broad shoulders, a square jaw, handsome face (differ-
ent than his human Facade), and is heavily muscled. Bonuses:
Increase height by one foot (0.3 m) and weight by 50%. +6D6 to
S.D.C., +4 to P.S., +1 to P.E., +1D4 to P.B. Penalty: Reduce
Horror Factor -1D4.
61-70% Halo of Power: The Nightbane radiates with a glow
around his head and shoulders or has a circular halo hovering
above his head. In the latter case, this may be a golden glowing
light, or it may be a physical gold ring or full gold disk that
gleams in the light, radiating like a miniature sun symbol. What-
ever its appearance, the halo will attract a lot of attention. Bo-
nuses: +1 to P.B., +1D4 to M.A., +4D6 S.D.C., resitant to fire
and cold (takes half damage), +1 attack per melee round, +2 on
initiative and pull punch, and +2 to Awe/Horror Factor. Pen-
alty: Diguise is impossible, and the character is likely to be
among the first to be targeted by evil.
71-80% Mystical Protection: The Nightbane radiates with a
thin white or light blue aura that is, in effect, a field of mystical
protection. The character also has a small or large mystic sym-
bol on his forehead or neck, and on his chest or the backs of his
hands. It appears to be a tattoo or branded and the symbol glows
during combat or times of apparent danger. Bonuses: The
Nightbane’s Natural A.R. is increased by 1D4 points (A.R. 19
maximum), the field provides 1D6x10+30 S.D.C. in addition to
the character’s own, +2 to save vs magic and illusions, +4 to
save vs possession, and +1 to all other saving throws. Penalty:
Offers no protection against weapons made of silver and dam-
age goes right to the character’s own S.D.C. then Hit Points.
81-90% Noble Bearing: This ‘Bane moves with the confi-
dence, sense of importance and grace of royalty; fluid and delib-
erate, with shoulders square and head held high. Bonuses: +4D6
to S.D.C., +1D4 to M.A., +1 to M.E., +1 to P.P., +1 to P.B., +1
to Awe/Horror Factor, +5% to Dance and all Physical skills (as
applicable). Penalties: Reduce Spd by 10% and -10% on Dis-
guise and Undercover skills.
91-00% Icon of the Faith: The Morphus appears with a
large iconic symbol of the closest faith (a Crucifix, Star of Da-
vid, wreath, etc.). This is typically worn around the neck on a
chain, but may also appear on, or in addition to, a headdress,
helmet, armor, tunic, cape, etc. and/or carried as a staff, scepter,
statuette, handheld holy symbol, or fetish. In the case of the
Nightbane, the symbol might even be fused to the body (typi-
cally head, neck or chest). This icon may be lent to others,
dropped, or stolen, but it will disappear when the Nightbane
switches back to Facade form and reappear with him when he
assumes his Morphus the next time. The icon is a living part of
the character. Bonuses: +4D6 S.D.C., +2 to M.E., +1 to M.A.,
and a +2 bonus to all saving throws, and impervious to posses-
sion, the vampire’s bite and mind control of the vampire. The
icon is also capable of repelling and holding the undead, ani-
74
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
mated dead, were-beasts and other creatures susceptible to holy
symbols at bay.