Pestilence & Disease Table
Despite the miracles of modern medicine rendering many 
maladies treatable, it is hardly an all-curing panacea. Cancers, vi-
ruses, bacteria, and fungal infections can indiscriminately maim, 
cripple, and kill unfortunate victims. It is for good reason, then, 
that many people worry about their own health and that of loved 
ones, or fear disease.
Nightbane with one or more Pestilence features may have 
been sickly in their youth, had a close friend or relative suffer 
with a serious disease, or even have been fighting such a disease 
at the time of their Becoming. Or they may just fear disease and 
sickness or have been a hypochondriac. On the other hand, the 
Nightbane might have been a doctor, nurse, pathologist or other 
health care professional who battled disease and looked for cures. 
Whatever the case, such Nightbane have a tendency to have bod-
ies covered in pus, boils, blisters, open wounds, rashes, scaling, 
crust, goo, blood, and other creepy and sickly looking disfigure-
ment on their face and bodies.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Typhoid Mary/Patient Zero: The Morphus is con-
stantly sweaty, has sallow skin (a pasty yellow or pale brown 
color), rheumy eyes (rimmed in red), and raspy, labored breath-
ing. Rattling coughs frequently rack the Nightbane’s body, which 
may appear slightly underweight, and thick mucus dribbles from 
the nose. Any clothing is usually disheveled and stained with un-
identifiable bodily fluids. In short, the character always appears 
seriously ill, but otherwise functions just fine. Bonuses: +2 to the 
M.E. and P.E. attributes, +2D6 S.D.C. +4 to save vs disease, +1 
to save vs possession and insanity and +1 to Horror Factor. Pen-
alties: -1 to the M.A., -2 to P.B. and Spd attributes, -10% to skills 
like Disguise, Impersonation, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
11-20% Ebola/Bleeding: The Morphus has a sickly pallor, 
hair is wet from sweat and plastered down on the head or head 
and neck, and blood oozes from the eyes, nose, and ears, with 
streams of blood that have dripped down the Nightbane’s cloth-
ing or armor. When the ‘Bane speaks, blood bubbles out from the 
corners of his mouth and makes a gurgling sound that may garble 
his words from time to time. Bonuses: +1 to M.E. attribute, +2D6 
S.D.C., +3 to Perception Rolls regarding disease, blood loss and 
vampires, +1 to save vs possession and mind control, and +2 to 
Horror Factor. A character with this feature can take the Blood-
bath Elite Talent (see Nightbane® RPG, page 113, or the Talent 
Appendix in this book) at double the range and duration and use it 
without taking damage. Penalties: -2 to M.A., P.B. and Spd attri-
butes, -20% to skills like Disguise, Impersonation, Performance, 
Seduction and Undercover Ops. Vampires and other creatures 
that can sense and track blood by smell are +25% to track this 
Morphus and know the Nightbane is approaching long before he 
is seen. Likewise, the constantly oozing blood is likely to leave a 
blood trail that can be tracked (+15% to Tracking skill); the blood 
does NOT have the same DNA as the Facade. Some Nightbane 
with this Morphus develop a taste for blood and may drink the 
blood of their enemies.
21-25% Anthrax: The Morphus is a human covered in red 
and white blisters, dark scabs, and scratch marks surrounded by 
redness and ulcers. The skin glistens from sweat due to fever, so 
the character feels hot to the touch, burning up with fever. The 
Nightbane has a persistent cough, wheezes when physically ac-
tive and has a raspy voice when he or she speaks, like he has a 
sore throat. Bonuses: +1 to P.S. attribute, +3D6 S.D.C., +3 to 
Perception Rolls to recognize disease, +2 to save vs fever and il-
lusions, and +1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -2 to M.A., P.B. and 
Spd attributes, -15% to skills like Disguise, Impersonation, Per-
formance, Prowl, Seduction and Undercover Ops, and a penalty 
of -5% to all other skills.
26-35% Creeping Crud: The Morphus is fairly normal look-
ing, though he or she may be a different gender than the Facade, 
and the body is covered in some sort of crusty or scabby-looking 
crud that covers half the face, neck, hands, arms and chest. The 
crusty material can be black, white, grey, red, yellow, green or 
just about any color, and actually provides a bit of armor-like 
protection. In the alternative, the crud can be a slime or goo that 
resembles snot/mucus that seems to either ooze from the body or 
from open wounds to coat part of the body. Bonuses: +1 to P.S. 
and M.E. attributes +1D6x10+30 S.D.C., resistant to fire (half 
damage), and +2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -2 to M.A. and P.B. 
attributes, -20% to skills like Barter, Disguise, Impersonation, 
Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
36-45% Pestilence/Bugs/Parasite Infestation: Half the face, 
neck, hands, arms, chest, back and legs are covered in maggots, 
worms, mites or other insects that seem to be eating through the 
Nightbane’s skin from the inside out, or he may be partially cov-
ered in leeches or lamprey-like things and similar parasitic crea-
tures. The Nightbane doesn’t seem to notice but most people will 
be revolted by this Morphus. The infestation provides a bit of 
armor-like protection. Bonuses: +1 to P.S. attribute, +5D6+20 
S.D.C., +2 to save vs disease/infection, is impervious to the ven-
om of insects, and +2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -3 to M.A. and 
P.B. attributes, -30% to skills like Barter, Disguise, Imperson-
ation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
46-55% Life Support/Coma Victim: The Nightbane is 
dressed in a hospital gown with a number of tubes and wires at-
tached to the body of the Morphus. Some are identifiable as I.V. 
lines, catheters, heart monitor leads, etc. There is also an oxy-
gen mask or breathing tube that is easily visible, but the opposite 
ends of these lines are not attached to any machinery, leaving 
them dangling or floating in midair. To make things even more 
eerie, the sound of the missing machinery can still be faintly 
heard when close to the Nightbane (requires a Perception Roll 
of 12 or better), beeping, whirring, and hissing away. The figure 
looks gaunt, and somewhat zombie-like with sunken eyes and 
cheeks, and poor pallor. Bonuses: +3D6 to Hit Points, +1D4x10 
to S.D.C. +20% to save vs coma and death, +2 to roll vs impact, 
+1 to save vs disease, +1 to Horror Factor and the Nightbane 
does not need air to breathe and can swim or remain underwater 
indefinitely! Penalties: -2 to the M.A., P.B. and Spd attributes, 
-2D6 from base P.P.E., -10% penalty on skills like Acrobatics, 
Climbing, Gymnastics, and Prowl, and -20% to Disguise, Imper-
sonation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
56-65% Madness/Mad Cow/Brain Worm: Much more com-
mon in olden days or in countries that hold onto outdated views 
of mental illness, this feature occurs most often in those afraid 
that madness is contagious or caused by a parasite or disease. In 
modern, developed nations it may still be seen in those afraid of 
losing control of themselves due to illnesses such as dementia. 
This manifests with the Morphus having wide-open, bloodshot 
eyes, frazzled and unclean hair, a twitch and a generally unkempt 
appearance. The Nightbane foams at the mouth like a rabid dog 
when angry or upset, and may mutter or giggle to himself without 
realizing it. Bonuses: +1D4 to the P.S. and P.E. attributes, +1D6 
to Spd, +5D6 to S.D.C., +3 to save vs insanity, and +1 to Horror 
Factor. Penalties: -3 to the M.E. attribute, -1 to M.A. and -5% on 
the performance of all skills. The character may be a bit absent-
minded and forgetful.
66-70% Swelling/Bloating: The Morphus’ limbs, abdomen, 
neck, and face are severely swollen and discolored. The abdomen 
is so distended that it makes the character appear overweight, and 
the neck is almost as wide as the head. Such is the circumfer-
ence of the arms and legs that they almost appear to be missing 
the joints. All of the swelling takes on a dark purple, brown, or 
yellow cast and feels squishy to the touch. Bonuses: +3D6+12 
S.D.C. Reduce all damage from falls, punches, kicks and blunt 
attacks by half. +1 to save vs disease, +1 to Horror Factor. Penal-
ties: -1 to the P.P. and P.B. attributes, -1D4 to Spd, and a -10% 
penalty on skills like Acrobatics, Climbing, Gymnastics, Dis-
guise, Impersonation, Swimming, Tailing and Undercover Ops.
71-75% Malignant Growths: There are masses that distort 
the figure of the Morphus form. These may be very large, smooth 
lumps or clusters of smaller, irregular lumps and tumors. At least 
one of these masses disfigures the face while the rest are scattered 
over the rest of the body. These lumps may be dark brown or 
black melanoma-type masses or appear to be subcutaneous and 
just alter the shape of the body part. Bonuses: +1 to the M.E. at-
tribute, +3D6 S.D.C, and +1 to Natural A.R. Penalties: -2 to the 
P.E. and P.B. attributes and -10% on Physical skills as well as 
Disguise, Impersonation, and Undercover Ops.
76-85% Oozing Rash: At least half of the Nightbane’s body, 
including parts of the face, is covered with a nasty, red rash. This 
rash constantly seeps clear pus and/or blood and there may be 
patches where the skin appears to have sloughed off, revealing 
raw, pink flesh beneath. Though it looks as if the rash would itch 
like crazy, it actually does not bother the Nightbane. Bonuses: +2 
to the M.E. attribute, impervious to infection, and +2 to Horror 
Factor. If an opponent attempts to grapple with the character, he 
must first roll to save vs a Horror Factor of 16 regardless of the 
standard Horror Factor of the Nightbane. If this additional roll 
is failed, the opponent is disgusted by the ooze, hanging flesh 
and open sores and cannot bring himself to touch the Nightbane. 
Penalties: -2 to the M.A. and P.B. attributes, -1 to all Perception 
Rolls, -5% on all skills, -20% penalty on skills like Disguise, Im-
personation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
86-90% Infected Lesions: The skin of the Morphus is dot-
ted and crisscrossed with suppurating wounds. These are actu-
ally deep holes and splits in the skin that look to be infected to 
the point of being gangrenous. This means that the tissue in the 
wounds is a sickly yellow or greenish color and smells terrible. 
The immediate area around each wound is an angry red color 
with streaks of red following the track of veins. A small num-
ber of these lesions are severe enough to bleed continuously, and 
bone, cartilage, and other connective tissue may be visible at the 
bottom of the wound. Bonuses: +1 to the M.E. attribute, +1 to 
P.E., +2D6 to Hit Points, +2D6 S.D.C., +2 to save vs disease and 
poison, and +2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -1 to the M.A. attri-
bute, -2 to P.S. and P.B., and -20% penalty on skills like Disguise, 
Impersonation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
91-00% Buzzing Pests: A small swarm or cloud of flying in-
sects constantly circle or enshroud the Nightbane. Most common 
are biting pests such as mosquitoes and horseflies that are capable 
of spreading diseases, but the insects could be flies, gnats, tiny 
moths, and flying ants or other insects. While they alight on the 
Nightbane and anything or anyone nearby, strangely they never 
seem to actually bite. Swatting or otherwise killing any number 
of them has no effect either, as the bodies disappear and are im-
mediately replaced within the swarm. Opponents trying to engage 
the Nightbane in hand to hand combat must deal with the insects 
flying into their eyes, ears, nose, and open mouth, making talk-
ing difficult and imposing a -2 penalty on all combat rolls such 
as initiative, strike, parry, dodge, disarm, etc. 01-50% chance 
that trying to speak or cast a spell within a 3 foot (0.9 m) radius 
around the Nightbane causes the person to choke and cough on 
the insects that fly into the mouth, preventing the spell from be-
ing finished. No loss of P.P.E., but no spell either. Bonuses: +3 
to the M.E. attribute, +2 to save vs disease, resistant to insect 
venom (half damage, penalties and duration), and +1 to Horror 
Factor. Penalties: -3 to the M.A. attribute and -1 to P.B., -2 to 
base P.P.E., -3 to Perception Rolls, and -10% to Prowl. Skills 
such as Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible.