Unearthly Beauty Table 
Not all Morphus are horrible to behold. Some have a terrible 
beauty that produces fascination and awe instead of fear or 
loathing. Nightbane students are divided as to whether these 
shapes are the result of inner beauty brought to the fore, or an in­
carnation of some darker facet of the Nightbane's personality. 
Although there aren't any statistical figures to confirm this, it is 
widely believed that more female Nightbane have beautiful 
qualities than their male counterparts. The argument is that fe­
males are more concerned about their appearance, and this 
comes through when their Morphus manifests. Modem-minded 
Nightbane consider this to be so much male chauvinism and ig­
nore it. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Beautiful Nightbane are often met with anger and contempt 
by others of their kind. The current nickname for attractive and 
not terribly deformed Nightbane is "Barbie" or "Ken" (some of 
the older Nightbane use "Venus" or "Adonis" instead). The 
"Barbies" inspire a great deal of jealousy among some Night­
bane, who feel they got the short end of the stick. Also, a few 
"Barbies" claim that their beauty is the result of their purer or 
superior spirits or souls which does not endear them to the rest.
01-10 % Doll-Like Appearance: The Nightbane's body is 
small and toy-like. His or her skin becomes unnaturally smooth 
and featureless (no fingerprints), size is reduced by 2D6+ 10 
inches (0.3 to 0.55 m), and body temperature is inhumanly cold. 
The character's P.B. is raised by 6 points and from a distance, 
the character will be mistaken for a small child. If standing per­
fectly still, he or she might pass as a storefront mannequin. In a 
good light, the inhuman features of the Nightbane have a fright­
ening aspect, providing a Horror Factor of t o.
11-30% Animal Magnetism: The Nightbane's P.B. and 
M.A. are increased by 8 (minimum P.B. and M.A. is 20!). Not 
only is his/her Morphus incredibly beautiful, it radiates cha­
risma. This is a mixed blessing, however, for the attraction the 
character exerts cannot be turned off. This can lead to a number 
of distractions, annoyances and even hazards, as total strangers 
make advances towards the character, or try to force their affec­
tions on him/her.
31-50% Elfin Features: The character has slender and deli­
cate features, oversized eyes and vaguely pointed ears, reminis­
cent of the legends of elves and faerie. Increase P.B. by 7 points 
(minimum 1 7) and size by 1 D6 inches. Their unusual appear­
ance has Horror Factor 6.
51-70 % Physical Perfection: The Nightbane's True Shape is 
at the peak of physical condition, with perfectly delineated mus­
cles and a shape somewhere between a gymnast and a body­
builder. Increase P.B., P.E. and P.S. by ID4 each and S.D.C. by 
4D6. The character projects an aura of danger that intimidates 
those around him, giving the Nightbane a base Horror Factor of 
6.
71-90% Fallen Angel: A Nightbane with inhuman beauty; 
increase P.B. by 6 and S.D.C. by 3D6. Fallen angels also have 
feathered wings on their backs which provide a slow flying 
(Speed of 4D6 in the air ability).
91-95 % :  Combination of Two: Roll two times (ignore and re­
roll any result of 9 1  % or higher) and combine the two results. 