Substance Abuse Table
Author’s Disclaimer: The following table is in no way meant 
to trivialize or celebrate the use/abuse of addictive and/or illicit 
substances. Quite the opposite. I ended my abuse of alcohol several years ago and have seen first-hand the terrible consequences 
of substance dependency. If you or someone you know is abusing 
drugs or alcohol, please seek help through resources such as Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous, or a local treatment 
center. Those players and G.M.s who are uncomfortable dealing 
with substance use or abuse themes in their game should feel free 
to ignore this table and re-roll. – The Author
The unfortunate truth is that substance abuse is endemic in most 
of the societies of Nightbane Earth, and has only become more 
prevalent since Dark Day and the quiet invasion of the Nightlords 
and their demonic minions and wicked human henchmen. Substance abuse and dependency often becomes quite a large part of 
the abuser’s identity, so it should be no surprise that there are a 
number of Nightbane with one or more features of their Morphus 
form that reflect their drugs of choice. A Nightbane with one of 
these features will typically (01-60%) have an addiction that corresponds with it, or a history of abusing that substance (61-80%), 
or a family history or fear of becoming addicted (81-00%). In the 
latter case, the Nightbane does not have an addiction problem 
himself, but has suffered the agony of watching a friend or loved 
one fighting addiction.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Hypodermic Quills: Hollow needles protrude from 
the back and shoulders, and may even continue down the back 
or arms of the Nightbane. These quills only add 1D6 damage toattacks using them, but the true danger lies in the poison they 
can inject (whether the syringe chambers are visible or not). If 
the chambers are visible this poison can be seen sloshing around 
inside. In some cases, the substance even slowly leaks from the 
tips of the needles and drips to the ground.
In combat, the Nightbane can remove one or two hypodermic 
syringes to use like poisoned daggers or spikes for stabbing and 
slashing. However, the ‘Bane’s bite (1D6 damage) and claw slash 
also deliver the same toxic substance that hurts and impairs his 
opponents. The Nightbane does not have claws per se, but does 
have somewhat overgrown fingernails that can cut and gouge. 
The cut is not deep, but it is enough to cause bleeding (1D4 damage) and to get the poison into his opponent’s system. On a successful strike that pierces an opponent’s skin, the Nightbane may 
choose to release a dose of poison into the target. If said target 
fails the saving throw vs poison (needs a 14 or better), he takes an 
additional 2D4 damage from the poison. This damage is done directly to Hit Points! Victims of this drug are also -1 to all combat 
and Perception Rolls for 1D4 minutes per each failed roll up to a 
maximum penalty of -5. The poison is only half as effective (1D4 
damage and penalties last only one minute) against supernatural 
and magical creatures, including the Nightlords and their demonic minions. Bonuses: +1D4 to the P.E. and P.S. attributes, +6D6 
to S.D.C., +2 to strike and parry with syringe only, +3 to roll with 
punch, fall or impact, and +2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -1D4 
P.B. and Spd attributes, -2D4 to Hit Points, -2D4 from the character’s permanent P.P.E. base, -2 on Perception Rolls and initiative, 
-1 to dodge and pull punch, -10% on the performance of all skills, 
and skills like Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible.
11-30% Pills: This Morphus can manifest in a number of different ways. Prescription pill bottles may be inset into various 
parts of the Nightbane’s body, portions of the flesh replaced by 
the transparent plastic of pill bottles revealing medication inside; 
or one of the most common and horrific manifestations is pills as 
the heads of pimples and warts all over the face, arms, and body, 
the heads of the capsules and pills poking out through the skin, 
and the Nightbane picking at them, plucking them out and eating 
them like candy to get a buzz. A bit of ooze or pus coats every 
pill when it is removed and trickles out from the empty socket. 
Whatever the case may be, it is bizarre and repugnant – tablets 
and capsules poking out of the skin or pills heard rattling around 
in the containers inside the Nightbane’s body as he moves. Bonuses: +1 on initiative, +5D6 to S.D.C. and +1 to the Nightbane’s 
Horror Factor, and +2 to save vs Horror Factor, drugs and poison.
Pill Notes: Pill Duration: The effects and bonuses of ALL 
pills last 1D4+2 minutes unless stated otherwise.
After-Effects: Last for 2D4+4 minutes or as indicated in the 
description.
Ingested: All pills must be taken orally and ingested, with the 
effect kicking in within 1D4 melee rounds. Slipping a ground-up 
pill into food and drink makes it noticeably bitter and foul tasting, 
so the target is likely (01-80% chance) to throw it away and not 
consume enough for the pill to have any effect.
Saving Throw: 16 or higher vs non-lethal poison. No save applicable when the pill is taken willingly. A successful save means 
no bonuses or penalties occur in the person, unless stated otherwise. Taking more than one of the same pill has NO additional effect. Penalties and bonuses cannot be stacked via taking multiple 
pills. Likewise, the effects of only ONE pill at a time apply, so if 
a new pill is taken, it cancels out the bonuses and effects of the 
previous pill and replaces them with the effects of the new pill. 
HOWEVER, penalties from all pills remain in place, with new 
penalties occurring after the previous ones stop, in the order that 
the pills were taken.
Pill Quantities and Descriptions:
1D4+2 Anti-Toxin: Taking this pill settles an upset stomach, 
stops vomiting, cures heartburn/acid indigestion, can help with a 
hangover (reduce duration by half), and it also restores 1D4 lost 
Hit Points caused by poison of any kind.
After-Effects: None.1D4+6 Booster Pills: This is a cocktail of chemicals to increase awareness and prevent sleep. Character is +2 on Perception Rolls, +1 on initiative, and is wide awake for 1D4+2 hours.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: -4 on Perception Rolls, -2 
on initiative, and drowsiness (-20% on performance of all skills, 
and will doze off when things get quiet or slow down). The aftereffects last for 1D6+6 hours or go away after getting seven hours 
of sleep.
1D4+4 Fat Pills: Kills the user’s appetite. Does not feel hungry for 1D4+4 hours. On the down side, the character is not eating enough to be properly well nourished and over a long period 
of time, could feel sick and become malnourished and weak.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: Low energy and hungry 
for 1D6+4 hours: -1 on Perception Rolls and initiative, -1 on all 
combat rolls and -10% to Spd attribute.
2D6+3 Happy Pills: The user feels relaxed and cheerful, and 
is disoriented in a positive, happy manner, making him feel unafraid and calm even under duress. This is good and bad, because 
while +4 to save vs Horror Factor, and +5 on all skills even when 
under fire and dealing with life and death conditions, the character is -4 on Perception Rolls, -4 on initiative, reduce Spd by 20%, 
and the character would rather talk, negotiate or drink than fight.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: -1 to save vs Horror Factor, and -10% on the performance of all skills, double when facing death conditions, and the character remains -4 on Perception 
Rolls and initiative and reduce Spd by 20% for 1D6x10 minutes.
1D4+2 Hallucinogenic Pills: On a failed saving throw, the 
person suffers from strong perceptual distortions and visual hallucinations. For example, the character may see everyone around 
him as cartoon characters or monsters, or angels, or aliens, or as 
members of a favorite (or scary) TV show, and so on. Or the environment might be someplace different or reflect the setting of a 
favorite or feared book, game, TV show or movie. (“How did we 
get on the Nostromo?! Where’s Ripley?”) Or people may glow 
or the sky may be filled with changing colors, flashing lights and 
so on. While hallucinating, victims are -6 on Perception Rolls, -5 
on initiative, -3 to strike, parry, and dodge, -4 to save vs Horror 
Factor and illusions, and skill performance is -30%. These effects 
last for 1D4 minutes.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: The character remains disoriented for the next hour, -2 on Perception Rolls and initiative 
(not sure what’s real and what’s not), -10% to the performance 
of all skills and -2 to save vs Horror Factor and illusions for the 
next hour.
1D4+1 Magic Pills: Is it a placebo or real? +1 to save vs all 
magic attacks, illusions, disease, poison and mind control, and 
+2 to save vs possession; double the bonuses to save against demons, the Nightlords, their demonic minions, any creature from 
the Nightlands, and other Nightbane.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: Feels emboldened and 
powerful or lucky, but is now really -1 to save vs all magic attacks and illusions, mind control, poison and toxins, and -2 to 
save vs possession and the magic or psionic attacks of the Nightlords and any creature from the Nightlands as well as demons, for 
the next 1D6+6 minutes.
2D4+4 Powerful Painkillers: Reduces pain and decreases any 
pain related penalties by half. The character can function reasonably well, but is foggy and the painkiller makes him -2 on Perception Rolls and initiative, -1 on all combat rolls and -5% on the 
performance of skills (in addition to any other penalties already 
in place from injury/pain).
After-Effects When Duration Ends: None, other than the pain 
returning and the full penalties from it roll back in place. Frequent use of powerful painkillers can lead to addiction.
1D4+4 Sedatives: On a failed roll to save, the recipient is incredibly groggy: Reduce attacks per melee, Spd and the performance of all skills by half, and combat bonuses to zero for 1D6+2 
minutes. If the roll to save was 4 or below, the victim falls into a 
deep sleep.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: Remains sluggish for 1D6 
minutes during which the character is -1 on all combat rolls, 
-10% on speed and -5% on skill performance for 2D6+2 minutes.
2D4+2 Steroids: Temporary bonuses of +1D4+4 to P.S., 
+2D6+10 to S.D.C. (damage comes off this first), +2 on initiative, but makes the character aggressive, quick to physical violence and prone to take risks and throw a punch rather than talk 
things out peacefully.
After-Effects When Duration Ends: The character’s P.S. returns to normal and then is temporarily reduced by 1D6 P.S. 
points, S.D.C. returns to normal, -4 on initiative, reduce Spd by 
20%, and the character feels tired and sluggish. Penalties last 
2D4+4 minutes.
31-40% Alcohol-Soaked: The Nightbane is drenched with 
liquor to the point that any clothing is soaked through, the liquid 
drips to the ground, and its smell pervades the surrounding area. 
The character also moves in a stumbling manner as if permanently drunk. Bonuses: +1D6 Hit Points, +3D6 S.D.C., +1 to the 
P.S. and P.E. attributes, +5 to roll with punch, fall or impact, +3 
to save vs poison and Horror Factor, never has a hangover, and 
interrogators suffer a -30% Interrogation skill penalty when trying to get anything useful out of this ‘Bane. Cold attacks, even 
magical ones, only do 10% of their normal damage. Penalties: 
-2 to the I.Q. and M.E. attributes, poor memory and subject to 
blackouts, -3 on Perception Rolls, -2 on initiative, -30% on all 
Communications skills, and -10% on all other skills. The alcoholsoaked Nightbane has a 50% chance of catching fire from any 
fire attacks, in which case he takes an additional 3D6 damage per 
melee round for 1D6+4 rounds or until the fire is put out.
41-50% Branded Loyalty: 1D6+1 product names are burned 
into the Nightbane’s skin. These may be brands of alcohol, cigarettes, prescription drug manufacturers or the names of drugs, etc. 
These brands are rough in appearance and always in clearly visible places like the forearms, chest, tops of hands, wrists, neck andface. Bonuses: +2 to the P.E. attribute, +3D6 to S.D.C., impervious to any negative effects and disease from the products whose 
logo is branded into his skin, and +1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: 
-2 to the M.E., M.A. and P.B. attributes, and -40% to skills such 
as Disguise, Impersonation, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
51-60% Rolling Paper or Leafy Skin: The skin of the Morphus form is composed of overlapping green or brown leaves, 
or a paper similar to that used to hand-roll cigarettes. At various 
points on the body the skin may appear to be yellowing and the 
eyes resemble a lit, smoldering cigarette. Small wisps of smoke 
sometimes issue forth from the eyes, nostrils and mouth, especially when excited or agitated, and the breath smells of cigarettes. Bonuses: +5D6 to S.D.C. Heat and fire do half damage 
(even magic fire), smoke has no adverse effect while in Morphus 
form, and +1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -3 to the M.A. and P.E. 
attribute, and a persistent cough imposes a -30% to Prowl, Performance and Public Speaking skills.
61-70% Pipe Throat: The throat of the Nightbane is at least 
partially replaced by metal or glass tubing. This has a drastic effect on the sound of the character’s voice and breathing (think 
Darth Vader). The voice has a rasping, wheezing or even gurgling 
quality and the piping may or may not glow red as the Nightbane 
speaks or breathes. At the same time, acrid smoke regularly wafts 
from the mouth and nostrils and hangs about the character like 
a shroud. Bonuses: The Nightbane is immune to smoke, sulfur, 
tear gas and other such airborne toxins/poisons, +1 to Horror 
Factor, and Blowing Smoke (special): The Nightbane can blow 
smoke in rings for entertainment or as a signal, or can blow a 
gust of smoke into an opponent’s face (3 foot/0.9 m range). The 
smoke temporarily irritates the eyes and lungs, imposing a -1 
penalty to Perception Rolls and all combat rolls for one melee 
round (15 seconds). Penalties: -1D6 from the permanent P.P.E. 
base, bad breath, -1 to Perception Rolls, -1 to strike with ranged 
weapons due to the obscuring smoke and a persistent cough that 
also imposes a -25% penalty to Prowl and Seduction.
71-80% Rotted Teeth: Many of the teeth are brown or yellow, cracked and broken, and 1D4x10% are missing. The teeth 
and gums are discolored and the breath is likely rancid. Bonuses: 
Bite attack does 2D4 damage (double damage to Nightlords and 
their demonic minions), +2D6 S.D.C., +1 to Horror Factor, and 
stench. The Nightbane can blow a gust of stench into an opponent’s face (4 foot/1.2 m range). Victims roll to save vs non-lethal 
poison (16 or greater is needed to save). A fail roll means the 
foul smell temporarily irritates the eyes and lungs, and causes 
the stomach to churn (01-30% chance of vomiting, in which case 
the victim loses one melee round). The rancid smell imposes a -3 
penalty to Perception Rolls and -2 penalty to all combat rolls for 
one melee round (15 seconds). A successful save means eyes suddenly burn but only -1 on Perception Rolls for one melee round. 
Penalties: -2 to the M.A. and P.B. attributes, and -30% to skills 
like Disguise, Undercover Ops, Barter, Seduction and Public 
Speaking.
81-90% ‘Roid-Rage: Every muscle in the character’s body 
looks larger but strained at all times. Veins stand out, breathing 
is heavy, and the expression on the face of the Morphus is almost 
always one of anger or madness. This does not make the Morphus larger or stronger, but someone with this feature seems to 
completely ignore physical injury. Bonuses: The character does 
not feel pain, +4 to the P.E. attribute, +1D6x10+20 S.D.C., and 
+1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: Because the Nightbane does not 
feel pain, he takes foolish risks, fights beyond rational limits, and 
does not realize when his S.D.C. and Hit Points plummet toward 
zero; -10% to save vs coma and death. Tends to be aggressive and 
quick to anger and violence.
91-00% Speed Freak: The Morphus form is gaunt and unhealthy looking. Dark circles ring the eyes, cheeks are hollow, 
rib bones are visible beneath the skin, and the Nightbane’s hand 
and body shake slightly with nervous energy. It is as if the character hasn’t slept or eaten in days. Bonuses: +1 to all Perception 
Rolls, +3 on initiative, +1 to parry and dodge, +10% to all Piloting skills, and talks fast, lives hard, and is +2 to save vs Horror 
Factor. Penalties: -1D4 to M.A., -10% on all skills that require 
a delicate touch due to trembling, and takes risks and tends to be 
a daredevil and death defying thrill-junkie who is sometimes a 
danger to himself and to those around him. Loves action, danger 
and speed.