01-10% Engine Block: Either replacing or built into the chest 
of this Nightbane is an entire engine block. This might be a min-
iaturized car or truck engine, a motorcycle engine, etc. When sta-
tionary, the engine constantly idles, but when the Nightbane is 
running or engaged in strenuous activity, it revs up just like the 
real thing. Bonuses: +3 to the P.S. attribute, +3D6+10 to Spd, 
+2D6x10 to S.D.C. with a base Natural A.R. of 10 (or +1 to an 
existing A.R. that is greater than 10), +2 to Horror Factor and 
+10% to all piloting skills that involve a motor. Penalties: -3 to 
the P.P. and P.B. attributes. Electrical and fire attacks inflict 50% 
more damage and the character will drown within 1D4+2 melee 
rounds if dropped into deep water in Morphus form (can’t hold 
breath or swim, too heavy). -30% to Climbing and Tailing. Skills 
like Acrobatics, Disguise, Gymnastics, Prowl, and Undercover 
Ops are impossible in this Morphus.
11-19% Coolant Tubes/Radiator: In place of veins, this 
character has transparent or translucent plastic tubes filled with 
blue or green liquid. In truth, this is ethylene glycol (antifreeze) 
and water, and the tubes all connect to a central radiator that juts 
from the abdomen or back. This radiator has 1D4x10+20 S.D.C. 
and an A.R. of 9, but is a relatively small target that requires 
a Called Shot at -3 to hit. Bonuses: +2 to the P.E. attribute, 
+2D6+10 to S.D.C. +1 to Horror Factor, the Nightbane is imper-
vious to poisons/toxins as well as diseases that affect the blood, 
his blood is toxic to vampires (4D6 damage per sip) and cold, 
heat and fire (even magical) do half damage. Penalties: -2 to the 
P.B. and Spd attributes, and -1D6 P.P.E. If the radiator is ever 
completely destroyed, it will not regenerate as normal unless the 
Nightbane returns to Facade form for at least 1D4 hours. Without 
the radiator, the Morphus form takes double damage from fire 
and cold-based attacks and heals at half the normal rate (usually 
5 S.D.C./H.P. per melee). Also, the leaking antifreeze makes the 
Nightbane much easier to track (+20% bonus to those tracking 
him).
20-28% Exhaust Pipes: One or more metal pipes protrude 
from the shoulders or back of the Nightbane, releasing a steady 
stream of exhaust vapor. This exhaust is indistinguishable from 
vehicle exhaust (gas or diesel), though it contains carbon dioxide 
rather than carbon monoxide. The pipes themselves may look like 
any car, truck, or motorcycle exhaust, with or without a muffler, 