Hobbyist Table
It seems that everyone in the developed world has a hobby of 
some sort. From collecting and/or reading books or comic books 
to hiking through the wilderness, people spend their free time 
pursuing thousands of different activities. For Nightbane with 
characteristics from the following table, so much time and energy 
has been spent on one or more hobbies that after the Becoming 
they find that their Morphus form reflects this deep interest.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-11% Backpack: The character might be an avid outdoors-
man, amateur athlete, hiker, camper or even a student or book-
worm. Whatever the case, the Morphus appears with a very large, 
oversized backpack or duffle bag. This bag is much tougher than 
usual (60 S.D.C.) and can usually only be struck from behind. 
The large backpack, despite its size, does not seem to encumber 
the Nightbane too much and is somewhat larger inside than what 
it appears, making it capable of storing up to 120 pounds (54 
kg) +10 pounds (4.5 kg) per level of experience. Bonuses: In 
addition to being able to carry a lot of gear, +1 to the P.S. and 
P.E. attributes and +2D6 to S.D.C. Penalties: -1 to P.P. and -6 to 
the Spd attribute, and -10% to skills like Climbing, Acrobatics, 
Gymnastics, and Prowl, and -30% to Disguise, Tailing and Un-
dercover Ops in this Morphus.
12-22% Card Deck: First, the Nightbane’s Morphus has a 
playing card motif element which may be subtle or unmistakable. 
This may be a classic poker card symbol – spade, club, heart, dia-
mond or one of the face cards – emblazoned on his face or chest, 
arms, or the palms or tops of his hands, and similar, like a tattoo, 
or as a symbol on clothing, armor or a helmet. This Morphus also 
comes with a deck of playing cards carried in a small case, usual-
ly hooked to a belt or held in a pocket. Unlike normal cards, they 
are tough and flexible enough to be used as thrown weapons. The 
sharp-edged cards inflict 1D6 damage each, with aces and face 
cards doing 2D6 damage. Throwing range is 60 feet (18.3 m). 
When the deck is used up, the Nightbane reaches back into his 
pocket or carrying case and pulls out a new deck; never runs out. 
Bonuses: +1 to I.Q. and P.P., +2 to strike with his pocker cards or 
any weapon designed for throwing, and does +2D6 damgae on a 
roll of a Natural 19 or 20. Penalties: -1 to the M.E. attribute and 
-1D6+2 from permanent P.P.E. base.
23-35% Video Games: Video games are extremely popular, 
especially among the adolescents and young adults most likely 
to become Nightbane. A fanatic about this form of electronic en-
tertainment, this character’s Morphus is likely to resemble the 
appearance of a character from a video game, be it a hero, villain, 
or creature, or may incorporate some elements of such characters 
like hair and armor, etc. He also wears virtual reality goggles that 
make everything he sees in the real world appear to be part of a 
video game! Thus, he feels like he is a character inside a video 
game. This bit of detachment from reality keeps the Nightbane 
cool, calm and at arm’s length from what can become a frighten-
ing reality.
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
36
He also has a wireless video game controller or joystick that 
he can use to boost and alter his Morphus! With the press of a 
button he can bestow any one the following upon himself, with 
instant results in some cases like life points, or a duration of one 
melee round (15 seconds) for powers and special abilities. Three 
such video game powers, +1 per level of experience, can be acti-
vated every hour.
Demon Death Strike: With the press of a button the Night-
bane’s hands and any weapon he is holding glow red. His next 
one attack, be it from a punch, kick, melee weapon, ranged 
weapon/gun, Talent or spell, inflicts double damage to demons 
and any creature from the Nightlands, including Night Princes, 
Nightlords, vampires and fellow Nightbane. Applies only to one 
attack. Roll to strike as usual. A successful parry means the crea-
ture suffers normal damage from the Demon Death Strike, not 
double. A successful dodge means it avoids the attack and takes 
no damage whatsoever.
Float: With two quick presses of a specific button, the Night-
bane can leap from any height and safely float down to the ground 
or a rooftop below. Can also be used to float on water or run 
across water.
Force Field: For one melee round the Nightbane is protected 
by a force field that has 60 S.D.C. +10 S.D.C. per each additional 
level of his experience.
Life Points: With the press of a button the Nightbane glows 
and instantly restores 3D6+18 Hit Points or S.D.C. to himself.
Heal Other: With the press of a different button the Nightbane 
can instantly restore 3D6+18 Hit Points or S.D.C. to any one per-
son he touches.
Hyper-Combat: Hit the right button sequence and for one 
melee round the Nightbane has two extra melee attacks, is 20% 
faster, and +1 to strike, parry, dodge, and disarm.
Impervious to Fire: For one melee round the Nightbane is im-
pervious to fire and smoke, including magic fire. Can be used to 
run through fire or run across burning embers or lava.
Impervious to Magic: For one melee round the Nightbane is 
impervious to all types of magic.
Jump: The Nightbane can jump around and over opponents. 
For one melee round he can leap up to 20 feet (6.1 m) high or 50 
feet (15.2 m) lengthwise and is +3 to dodge.
See the Invisible: For one melee round the Nightbane is able 
to see the invisible; line of sight.
Special Attack: Energy Bolt: For one melee round the Night-
bane can fire energy bolts from his hands; treat like a Talent. Each 
blast does 4D6 damage +2 per each level of the Nightbane’s ex-
perience and has a range of 600 feet (183 m) +100 feet (30.5 m) 
per level of experience.
Special Attack: Returning Melee Weapon: For one melee 
round, any melee weapon the Nightbane throws does an extra 
1D6 damage, has a range of 120 feet (36.6 m), and it returns right 
back to him so he can throw it again. This includes impromptu 
weapons like a frying pan, peice of pipe, a bottle or a brick.
Bonuses: +1 to I.Q., +2 to save vs insanity (but is already a 
little detached from reality as a coping mechanism). Penalties: -2 
to the M.A. attribute, -2D6 from permanent base P.P.E., and the 
character tends to equate the real world with video game equiva-
lents and analogies. Worst of all, if the Nightbane’s controller/
joystick is lost or destroyed, he feels powerless, loses 2D4 S.D.C. 
(or Hit Points if S.D.C. are gone) and is -1 attack per melee round, 
and -10% on the performance of all skills. To make the controller 
reappear, he must change back into his Facade and wait one hour 
before resuming his Morphus. Note: The controller has 10 S.D.C. 
and can only be hit if the enemy is specifically targeting it with 
a Called Shot.
36-44% Dice Bag: A large bag filled with multifaceted dice 
hangs from the Nightbane’s wrist, belt, or other convenient point. 
The bag may be made of a number of materials from cloth to 
chain-mail links. Whatever the case, it is actually large and heavy 
enough to be used as a bludgeoning weapon in hand to hand com-
bat, and does 1D6 damage plus Supernatural P.S. punch damage. 
The dice can also be removed from the bag and scattered on hard 
ground or floors to discourage pursuit. Bonuses: +1 to I.Q. and 
+1 to strike and parry using the dice bag as a weapon. Penalties: 
-1 to dodge and -1 to pull punch.
45-55% Display Case: One or more panes of glass are incor-
porated into this character’s Morphus form. Underneath each one 
is any variety of collectible objects from toy cars to butterflies. 
These built-in display cases may be opened by the Nightbane and 
even used to carry other small objects, though they are easily seen 
(-30% to the Concealment skill). Bonuses: +1 to the P.E. attri-
bute and +20% to the Barter skill when buying or trading for the 
collection. Penalties: -20% to Acrobatics, Camouflage, Disguise, 
Gymnastics, Prowl, Swimming and Undercover Ops skills.
56-66% Leather-Bound: The skin of the Nightbane is actu-
ally made of well-worn leather like that of an old book. Small 
belts and buckles may be incorporated as well, though things like 
spikes, studs, and zippers are rare. Nightbane with this feature are 
often avid readers/book collectors or do leatherwork as a hobby. 
Bonuses: +2 to the I.Q. or P.P. attribute, +4D6+6 to S.D.C., a 
Natural A.R. of 8 and +1 to Awe/Horror Factor. Penalties: -2 
to Perception Rolls involving the sense of touch. The Nightbane 
also takes 50% more damage from fire-based attacks, and -10% 
to Acrobatics, Camouflage, Climb, Disguise, Gymnastics, Prowl, 
Swimming and Undercover Ops skills.
67-77% Saddle: The character is an equestrian or enjoys 
horseback riding or caring for the animal. In Morphus, the char-
acter may have a cowboy esthetic to his appearance and has a 
riding saddle either draped over one shoulder or worn on his own 
back, fastened to him with straps of rawhide or belts. The Night-
bane’s body may resemble etched leather or be covered in burns 
from branding irons of various designs, or he may have a long, 
horse-like face or mane of hair. The saddle may be made of any 
number of materials with a wide variety of possible appearances, 
but leather is most common. Any Nightbane capable of running 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
37
on all fours can let other people ride in the saddle. Bonuses: 
+2 to the P.S. and P.E. attributes, +3D6 to S.D.C., and +10% 
to any Horsemanship skill. Special: Anyone riding in the saddle 
receives +1 to initiative, +2 to damage with melee weapon, and 
+1 to dodge regardless of training or experience in mounted com-
bat. Penalties: -1 to M.E. attribute, -3 to roll with punch, fall, or 
impact, .
78-88% Telescopic or Binocular Eyes: Whether it’s the re-
sult of a love of astronomy, bird-watching, or a similar hobby, the 
Nightbane’s Morphus has a set of magnifying lenses that replace 
one or more of his eyes. The apparatus may be inset into the skull 
or protrude up to 2 feet (0.6 m) from the character’s face. These 
optics allow the Nightbane to see objects up to 2 miles (3.2 km) 
away as if standing within a few feet. Characters with nightvision 
can see as if they have a passive nightvision scope. Bonuses: 
+2 to strike with long-range weapons like rifles or bow and ar-
row, +1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -1 to strike, parry, and dodge 
in melee combat, and -15% to any skill that requires seeing fine 
detail up close like reading, surgery, Computer Operation, Pick 
Locks, etc.