Unnatural Limbs Table 
01-10% Prehensile Tail: The Nightbane has a prehensile 
tail, which can be used to grasp and carry things or help climb. 
The tail is very strong, able to support the character's full body 
weight when suspended above the ground. However, it can only 
carry the equivalent of one-third of the character's body weight 
(typically about 60 Ibs\27.2 kg). Add +20% to climb and balance 
when the tail is used and it adds one additional melee action/at­
tack. Add 1 to Horror Factor.
11-20% Spiked Prehensile Tail: Same as above, except that 
the tail ends in a spike, blade, stinger or club with 2D4 small 
spikes at the end. Strikes with the tail inflict 2D6 damage.
21-30% Tentacles: The character has two tentacles in addi­
tion to his arms! These tentacles are very difficult to conceal 
(need at least a trench coat, cape or cloak). The limbs can grab 
and carry objects, but are unable to use firearms or other tools 
requiring fingers. A pair of tentacle strikes do ID6 S.D.C. in ad­
dition to normal hand to hand damage, and provide one addi­
tional attack/action per melee round. Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
31-40% Long, Sensitive Fingers: The fingers on the hands 
are three times longer than normal. They are delicate and sensi­
tive, providing a bonus of +5% to each of the following skills or 
skill categories: Medical (all), demolitions (both), electronics 
(all), computers (all), pick locks, pick pockets, and climbing.
41-50% 2D4 Pairs of Tiny Arms and Hands: The character 
has several tiny arms about one-third the size of a normal arm, 
usually located along the length of his forearm(s) or clustered at 
the shoulder(s). Each has a P.S. of only ID6 and inflicts only 
one point of damage in combat (and then only if a foe gets close 
enough). However, they can grab and carry small and or light 
objects or wield razor blades, small knives, or ice picks (lD4 
damage each). Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
51-65% Four Arms: The Nightbane has an extra pair of 
arms and hands. Adds one attack/action per melee round, and all 
are ambidextrous and double jointed. Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
66-80% Pseudopods: At will, the Nightbane can extract 
I D4+ 1 tentacle-like limbs from his flesh, much like an amoeba 
can extend pseudopods. The process of extending these limbs is 
utterly horrible to a human being, because these fleshy limbs 
break through the skin as if an unwholesome parasite were 
climbing out of the character's body! Treat the pseudopods as 
tentacles (see above), add one melee attack for each pair and 
each limb has 22 S.D.C. Add ID4+2 to Horror Factor whenever 
the pseudopods are extended.
81-90% Articulated Spikes: The character has four spikes or 
spines that resembles the spine or legs of an insect. Each is about 
the size of a survival knife, but can extend to twice that length in 
an instant. They are distributed along the side of each forearm 
104 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
(two on each ann) or on the chest, or sides of the body. These 
slim, chitinous limbs end in sharp points, and can move inde­
pendent of each other like tiny, stiff arms and even rotate in a 
360 degree circle. They are used to parry an enemy's hand to 
hand attacks (+2 to parry) and to stab or slash opponents who 
come within ann's length. The four spikes add one attack per 
melee round and each inflicts 2D6 S.D.C. damage, but they can­
not grab or manipulate objects. Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
91-00% Antenna: A pair of antennae are located on the char­
acter's head. Each can move like an arm, independent from each 
other, and can dodge attacks (+3 to dodge; each has 1 5  S.D.C., 
and will regenerate within 72 hours). They can look like any va­
riety of insect or crustacean antennae and are typically, thin, 
whip-like limbs that extend ID4 feet (0.3-1 .2 m) in length. 
These sensitive "feelers" enable the Nightbane to move around 
in total darkness, can measure and detect changes in the air tem­
perature and humidity (automatic), wind movement and direc­
tion (automatic), detect and identify common odors (66% 
proficiency), track by smell (50%), and sense an approaching 
rainstorm (70%; storm will arrive within 2D6x1O minutes). 
Adds I point to Horror Factor. 