Snake Table -------
A traditional subject of fear and fascination, the snake is a 
common motif found among the Nightbane. Snakes are symbols 
of temptation, hunting, and subtlety. Cobra-based shapes are 
often found among Nightbane with leadership qualities or ambi­
tion. All snake Nightbane instinctively know how to swim at a 
base proficiency of 55% and climb at 40% (unless stated other­
wise).
01-15% Full Snake Form: The character's Morphus has the 
shape of a giant snake (at least six feet/1 .8 m in length; typically 
take the length of the Nightbane's Facade and add lD6 feet/0.3 
to 1 .8 m to it). Bonuses: +6 to P.S., +3 to P.E., +2 to P.P. and 
+2D6xlO to S.D.C. The snake form has a base Climbing skill 
(60%, or add +20% to the character's current climbing skill, 
whichever is greater; applicable in Morphus form only). Add +5 
to Horror Factor. 
If the Morphus is that of a poisonous serpent (asp, cobra, 
rattlesnake, viper, etc.), its bite inflicts 2D6 S.D.C. plus venom 
does 6D6 damage (or 3D6 if a successful save versus lethal poi­
son is made). Add another + 1 to Horror Factor if poisonous. 
A constrictor snake has all the base abilities of the wrestling 
skill, plus it can jab with its head or coil from its body to do the 
equivalent of punch damage. Crushing/constricting attacks do 
double the character's normal punch damage plus P.S. bonuses. 
Each act of constriction does damage and counts as one melee 
attack.
16-30% Limbed Snake: The Nightbane has a pair of scaly 
human-like arms, hands and legs stemming from a long snake­
like body. The basic form remains that of a snake, with an over­
long "neck" and a snake's head. The snake-man's "torso" can 
bend and twist with the full flexibility of a serpent and all limbs 
are double jointed and ambidextrous. Bonuses: Add one attack 
per melee round, +4 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +2 to P.P. and +2D4xlO 
to S.D.C. Add + 15% to the Climbing skill if the character pos­
sesses it, otherwise base ability applies. Add lD6 to Horror Fac­
tor. 
If the Morphus is that of a poisonous serpent, its bite inflicts 
2D6 S.D.C. plus venom does 4D6 damage (or 2D6 if a success­
ful save versus lethal poison is made). 
A constrictor snake has all the base abilities of the wrestling 
skill, plus it can jab with its head or coil from its body to do the 
equivalent of punch damage. Crushing/constricting attacks do 
double the character's normal punch damage plus P.S. bonuses. 
Each act of constriction does damage and counts as one melee 
attack.
31-50% Humanoid Snake: The character has the basic build 
and shape of a human being, but the skin is covered by colorful 
scales, the head and neck are those of a snake, and it has a long 
prehensile tail. In addition to the sharp fangs of a snake, the 
Nightbane also has sharp claws on his hands and feet that can in­
flict and additional ID6 S.D.C. damage from punches/claw 
strikes and kicks.The bite inflicts 2D6 S.D.C., and if a poisonous 
variety, will inject a venom doing 3D6 damage (reduced to lD6 
on a successful save versus lethal poison). The tail can be used 
to hit, hold and carry objects or as an aid in climbing (add + 10% 
to the climbing skill). Bonuses: Add one attack per melee round 
from prehensile tail, +3 to P.S., +2 to P.E., + 1  to P.P., and 
+lD6x 1 0  to S.D.C. Add I D4+ 1 to Horror Factor.-70% Scaly Skin: A nonnal human body and features ex­
cept for the scale-covered skin and eyes that are snake-like in 
appearance. Add lD6xlO S.D.C. Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
71-85% Half-Man, Half-Snake: A scale-covered human 
torso with arms and hands, a human head and a long snake-like 
body and tail. This Nightbane has no legs, and must crawl or 
climb using his/her lower body. The upper torso can bend and 
twist with the full flexibility of a serpent and all limbs are double 
jointed and ambidextrous. Bonuses: Add one attack per melee 
round, +4 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +3 to P.P. and +ID6xlO +10 to 
S.D.C. Add +20% to the climbing skill if the character possesses 
it. 
If the Morphus is that of a poisonous serpent, its bite inflicts 
2D6 S.D.C. plus venom does 4D6 damage (or 2D6 if a success­
ful save versus lethal poison is made). Add 1 D6 to Horror Fac­
tor. 
A constrictor snake has all the base abilities of the wrestling 
skill, plus it can jab with its head or coil from its body to do the 
equivalent of punch damage. Crushing/constricting attacks do 
double the character's nonnal punch damage plus P.S. bonuses. 
Each act of constriction does damage and counts as one melee 
attack.
86-00% Snake's Head: The Nightbane has a nonnal human 
body, topped by a giant snake's head! Bite inflicts 3D6 S.D.C., 
plus if poisonous will do an additional 3D6 damage (ID6 if a 
successful save versus lethal poison is made). Add 2D6 to 
S.D.C., and lD4 to Horror Factor. 