11. I.S.P.: M.E. x5 plus 2D6 per level of exper ience. 
12. Insanity: The Price of Power: The constant expos ure to 
the ever-mutating environment of the Dreamstream will often 
take its toll on the character. Every time the character reaches a 
new level of experience (sta rting at second level ), he must make 
a save versus insa nity (use M.E. bonuses, if any). If the save 
failed, roll on the following table: 
01- 30 % Short-Term Temporary Insanity: Roll on the sec­
ond Random Insa nity Table (see Nightbane RPG, page 45), but 
the effects only last 2D4 days. 
31-6 0 % Long-Term Temporary Insanity: As above, but 
the effects last 3D4 weeks. 
61- 80 % Permanent Insanity! The effects of the Random In­
sanity roll are permanent unle ss the character undergoes therapy 
or other cure (see the Nightbane RPG, page 47). 
81 -90 % Fear of Dream Monsters! The character develops a 
phobia about monsters in the Dreamstream. These include Night­
lord minions as well as nightmari sh personas and monsters that 
may exist in a Dream Po ol. He or she functions fine, with all the 
powers of their P.C.C. until confronted by a monster. This long 
lasting phobia will plague the character for 3D4 months ! If the 
character should get this insa nity more than three times in his 
life, the phobia becomes permanent ! 
91 -00 % Fear of Dreaming: The character will be terrified of 
the Dreamstream, and will actively try to avoid dreaming (will 
resist sleep at all costs , even resorting to stimula nts to stay 
awake). This temporary state will last ID 6 days; during which 
time the character will be unable to ac cess the Dreamstream or 
any dream powers and loses all P.c.c. bonu ses to resist dream 
95 
manipula tion attacks . After mis sing sleep for over 24 hours , the 
character will be at -1 to all comba t actions and -5% on all skills. 
This is increased by an additional -1 and -5% respectively every 
consecutive day. After 4 days, a save of 14 or high er is required 
to avoid colla psing from exhaustion . 
Attribute Requirements: M.E. 14 or higher; exclusive to hu­
mans. 
P.C.C. Skills: The skills below reflect the fact that most dream 
makers do not spend a great deal of time or effort in the "real 
world ." Some character backgrounds may allow for more 
skills or greater skill bonuses. Such changes are ultima tely 
left to the game master to allow or not, but even then the 
range of skills will be limited. 
Language and litera cy: Native language (98 %) 
Lore : Dreamstream (+25 %) 
Two technica l skills of choice (+ 1 0% ) 
Two domestic skills of choice (+ 1 0% ) 
Hand to hand : basic can be select ed as an "other" skill, hand 
to hand: expert at the cost of two "other" skills, or martial arts 
(or assassin if an evil alignment) at the cost of three "other" 
skills. 
P.C.C. Related Skills: Sel ect 10 other skills. Plus select one ad­
ditional skill at levels three, five, eight, eleven and thirteen. 
All new skills start at level one proficiency. Skills should re­
flect the character 's background. Game masters should feel 
free to disallow any skill that makes no sense given the char­
acter 's history - or to allow a character to get a restricted 
skill if the player can come up with a good enough reason for 
it. 
Communica tion s: Any 
Domest ic: Any (+ 1 0%) 
Ele ctrical : Any 
Esp ionage : Wilderne ss surviva l only. 
Mechanical : Any 
Medical : First aid, paramedic or holistic medicine only. 
Mili tary: None 
Physical : Any 
Pilot: Any 
Pilot Relat ed: Any 
Rogue : Any 
Sc ience: Any 
Technical : Any (+5 %) 
W.P. : Any 
Wild erness: Any (+5 %) 
Secondary Skills: The character also gets to select five secon­
dary skills. These are additional areas of knowledge that do 
not get the benefit of the bonu ses li sted in parenthe ses. All 
secondary skills start at the base skill level . Also, skills are 
limited (any, only , none) as previously indica ted on the list. 
Standard Equipment: Most Dream Makers have little interest 
in the waking world, and own very little there. Depending on 
the character 's background, the game master can allow them 
to purchase up to 3D6x 10 00 dolla rs ' worth of equipment and 
possessions, lim ited by legal ity and availa bility. Common 
possess ions incl ude a vehicle (a few Dream Makers are 
known to favor old vans, often painted in wild and garish col­
ors) and such basics as clothing, shelter and food. 
Money: 2D6x 10 0 doll ars in cash for most Dream Makers; this 
may be adjus ted by the game master to reflect the player's 
background. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)