=== PAGE 62 ===
the Inner Plane, looking for victims. The creature's physical 
S.D.C. and hit points are doubled when in astral form. The 
Garkain is described in the Beyond the Supernatura[fM RPG. 
Elementals: Many elemental beings exist in the Astral Plane. 
The creatures described in the Beyond the Supernatura[fM RPG 
and Rifts« Conversion Book: One are the greatest elemental be¡
ings, and highly dangerous when encountered. Future Nightbane 
sourcebooks on the Astral Plane will give more information 
about these creatures. 
Entities: In addition to the astral entities described under the 
section entitled "Astral Entities," other entities of pure psychic 
energy that can be found in the regions of the Plane, include the 
poltergeist, syphon, and haunting, tectonic and possessing enti¡
ties. See the Beyond the Supernatura[fM RPG and Rifts« Con¡
version Book: One for more information. 
Demons and Devils: These supernatural creatures are said to 
inhabit strange astral domains, or they may come from com¡
pletely alien dimensions. They seem to delight in tempting or 
tormenting humans. See the Palladium Fantasy RPG, Rifts« 
Conversion Books 1 & 2 .  
Astral Entities 
All entities are beings of pure psychic energy who feed on the 
energies of other beings. When traveling in the physical world, 
entities are invisible to the naked eye, although most psychics 
and supernatural beings will be able to sense their presence. In 
the Astral Plane, most entities can have almost any shape they 
wish; some prefer humanoid forms, while others look utterly 
alien. This can be especially confusing to the inexperienced trav¡
eler, because the entity's shape in no way reflects the creature's 
powers and abilities; other than the fact that the more powerful 
among them tend to be larger. Their goals, desires and attitudes 
are just as varied; although all entities are psychic vampires in 
one way or another, not all of them are malicious or evil, and a 
few are actually benign, never feeding on unwilling victims and 
preferring to trade services for energy instead of merely taking 
what they need. 
Not all astral entities are created equal. Depending on their 
sheer power, these creatures are classified as Lesser, Common 
and Greater astral entities. Lesser entities are little more than 
pests or a source of amusement for astral travelers, although they 
can be dangerous in large numbers. Common astral entities can 
be dangerous depending on their actual abilities and disposition, 
and greater entities must be treated with caution, for they can 
hurt or even kill a human even if they do not mean to! 
Astral entities can be found mostly in the Outer Layer of the 
plane, and they sometimes venture to Earth or the Nightlands 
seeking nourishment. Entities in the Inner Plane sometimes try to 
invade domains, especially those where a Dragon Road has been 
tapped for energy. For the most part, astral entities will not at¡
tack unless provoked or hungry. Powerful individuals and 
groups are rarely molested even then, unless the creatures be¡
lieve (rightly or wrongly) that they can overpower the prospec¡
tive victims. Astral Entities respect and fear members of the 
Millek race (see the Millek R.C.C., described in this section), 
but have no qualms about feeding on humans, Tarantuloids and 
61 
other beings. Most also tend to avoid Necrophim and other 
Nightlord minions, due to the savage reprisals such attacks bring 
about. 
Lesser, Common & Greater Astral Entities: 
Note: Entities are not meant to be used as player characters. 
Alignment: Any; most are selfish, with a few evil and good 
ones. 
Attributes: LQ. 3D4, M.E. 3D4, M.A. 3D4, P.S. 3D4, P.P. 3D6, 
P.E. 3D6, P.B. varies with shape, Spd. I D4x l O. 
Attribute Modifiers: The attributes above are for common as¡
tral entities. To determine the attributes of lesser entities, sub¡
tract 2 from all attributes. Greater astral entities get 2D6 
added to all attributes. 
Size: Varies with shape. Typically human size to I D4 times 
larger. 
Hit Points (no S.D.C.): I D4x l O  (lesser), 2D4x l O  (common), 
4D6x lO +20 (greater) 
Horror Factor: I D4+4 lesser, I D4+6 common, and ID4+8 for 
greater. 
P.P.E.: I D6 for lesser, 2D6 common, and 5D6 for greater. 
Natural Abilities: In the physical plane, entities are invisible (to 
anybody but psychics, young children and some animals), 
they can fly to up 1 00 mph ( 1 60 kmph), and can pass through 
walls. In the astral plane, they lose these abilities and take on 
a ghostly form, human or monstrous, as previously described. 
In the Astral Plane all entities can fly (have normals speed), 
understand and speak all languages (due to their psionic na¡
ture) and have the equivalent to the astral navigation power 
at no LS.P. cost. Also see psionic powers. 
Psychic Vampirism: Astral entities can draw on the LS.P. or 
P.P.E. of other creatures to fuel their psionic powers. Drawing 
energy from unwilling victims aware of their attack is re¡
sisted by a save versus psionic attack. Most astral travelers 
will be aware and unwilling, but most normal people on Earth 
will not be. Up to 10 points per level of the monster's experi¡
ence can be drained every melee round; P.P.E. can be con¡
verted into usable LS.P. by the entity at the conversion rate of 
four P.P.E. equals one LS.P. point. 
Combat: In the physical world, the entity can only attack using 
psionic powers; two per melee round. In the Astral Plane, 
where the creature has physical form, it can attack with psi on¡
ics and/or physical hand to hand; total of two attacks per me¡
lee round. Add one additional attack (psionic or physical) per 
melee round at levels three, six and eight. 
Damage: Supernatural P.S. damage in the astral plane, or by 
psionics. 
Bonuses: +1 to strike, parry, and dodge, +2 to roll with punch, 
fall or impact, +1 to pull punch, +2 save vs magic, +3 to save 
vs psionics, and + 15 to save vs horror factor! Add + 1 to strike 
at levels three, six and ten, + 1 to parry and dodge at levels 
two, five and nine. 
Magic Powers: None. 
Psionic Powers: Lesser entities get to select four powers from 
any two categories (except master psionics); common entities 
get eight powers from any of the three lesser categories, and 
greater entities get ten powers from the three lesser catego¡
ries, and four from the master category. 
Average Life Span: Apparently endless. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 63 ===
Experience Level: Lesser: I -2nd level; Common: I D4+ 1 ;  
Greater: 2D4+ 3 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: P.P.E. dependency: The entities must 
feed on at least two P.P.E. or I.S.P. per level of experience 
once a month, or they lose one point from their P.P.E. base; if 
their P.P.E. is reduced to zero in this manner (which may take 
several months or years), the entity dissipates and is de¡
stroyed. 
R.C.C. Skills: Lore: Astral (+25%); most other skills are not ap¡
plicable. 
Allies and Enemies: Some astral entities serve powerful astral 
dwellers, including astral lords, human mages, Millek sages, 
and other beings of power. They are hunted down by Mounte¡
banks, Rage Storms, Necrophim and Vampire Specters, al¡
though sometimes a large group of entities will tum the table 
on one of these predators. 
Weapons and Equipment: None. 
Rage Storms 
o 
0. ' 
: tr  
- : - .  
Most authorities on the Astral Plane, even the sages of the 
Gray Ghost Society, are still unsure whether these Rage Storms 
are actual living things or some sort of psychic manifestation of 
ectoplasm. One theory claims that they are the embodiments' of 
the anger, fear and negative emotions of the people of Earth (or 
other worlds). Others believe this is a real living creature, per¡
haps a highly territorial being who attacks anything and anybody 
it considers to be an intruder. In either case, the Rage Storms are 
incredibly powerful beings, huge entities that at first glance ap¡
pear to be dark grey, purple or red swirling clouds, sometimes 
taking on the shape of a tornado or whirlwind, others appear as a 
less threatening, dark, rolling cloud. Sometimes they have 
vaguely humanoid faces, always contorted in rage. The smallest 
Rage Storms are at least 30 feet (9. 1 m) high and wide, and per¡
haps twice as long. Some of the largest ones (thankfully, very 
rare) are the size of skyscrapers! 
Rage Storms batter and buffet any living thing in their path 
with hurricane-force winds, able to destroy an astral form with a 
few well-placed blows. Furthermore, they can engulf victims, 
temporarily draining their energies. For the most part, the best 
tactic when encountering a Rage Storm is to flee and hide. Their 
62 
.
.
 
?,: 
, 
, ....  
. 
.-.' 
6 
0 .0-:. 
' : 0 " 
0'" 
, ' , 0 
" 0 
. 
. r . .  
presence can always be felt before it can be seen. Even non-psy¡
chics will feel the Rage Storm's fury and hatred as it approaches. 
Doing battle with these entities is usually a suicidal proposi¡
tion. Nightbanes, Guardians and the most powerful psychics can, 
and do, defeat these raging storms by dispersing their ectoplasm 
"bodies," but such undertakings are extremely dangerous. The 
furious force is almost impossible to destroy. 
Alignment: Unknown; presumably diabolic! 
Attributes: Not applicable. 
Length: I D6x l O  feet (3.0 to 1 8.3 m) long; one in five hundred 
will be I D6x20 feet larger! 
S,D.C.: 4D6x l O+60; add +20 for every 10 feet (3.0 m) in length 
beyond the first 10. 
Hit Points: I D4x lOO 
Horror Factor: 14 ( 1 8  for truly gigantic ones) 
P.P.E.: 10 
Natural Abilities: See the invisible, regenerate 4D6 S.D.C. or 
hit points per minute (4 melee rounds), navigate the astral 
plane, and fly at a speed of I D6x l O+ 100 mph. 
Engulf (Special Attack): To have full effect against other 
living creatures, the Rage Storm will sweep over its intended 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 66 ===
first or second level of experience. Sages are typically 4-7 
level (I D4+3) and Old Sages are very high level ( ID6+9). 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: P.P.E. Dependency: Milleks do not 
eat, but derive nourishment from the ambient P.P.E. of the 
Astral Plane. When traveling outside the Plane, they must 
stay within three miles (4.8 km) of a ley line or nexus point. 
Every day spent outside this range, the Millek will lose ID6 
P.P.E. and I D4 hit points. If either P.P.E. or hit points are re¡
duced to zero, the character will fall into a coma and will die 
if not taken to a P.P.E. rich area within 24 hours. 
Also, Milleks without astral projection or astral transfer¡
ence cannot leave the Astral Plane and enter such physical 
worlds as Earth or the Nightlands. The Millek can only visit 
the material world in astral form, they cannot materialize in 
the physical world. Thus, they have the same advantages and 
limitations of any ghost-like astral traveler. 
R.C.C. Skills: 
Language: Millek (98%) 
Languages: Three of Choice (+20%) 
Acrobatics (+ 10%) 
Detect Ambush (+ 10%) 
Lore: Psychic (+1 5%) 
Lore: Astral (+25%) 
Prowl (+ 10%) 
Lore: Demon and Monster (+15%) 
W.P. Staff 
Hand to Hand: Martial Arts 
R.C.C. Related Skills: Select 10 other skills. Plus select a new 
skill at levels three, five, eight and eleven. All new skills start 
at level one proficiency. 
Communications: None 
Domestic: Any (+5%) 
Electrical: None 
Espionage: Detect concealment only (+5%) 
Mechanical: Only 
Medical: Holistic medicine only (+10%) 
Military: None 
Physical: Any (+5% if applicable) 
Pilot: Horsemanship and boating only. 
Pilot Related: Navigation only. 
Rogue: Any non-technological. 
Science: None 
Technical: Any (+ 1 0%) 
W.P.: Any archaic W.P. 
Wilderness: Any 
Secondary Skills: The character also gets to select six secondary 
skills. These are additional areas of knowledge that do not get 
the benefit of the bonus listed in parentheses. All secondary 
skills start at the base skill level. Also, skills are limited (any, 
only, none) as previously indicated on the list. 
Alliances and Allies: Some Millek often collaborate with hu¡
man or Nightbane astral travelers, and act as teachers for any 
worthy pupil. Some Millek have one or two astral entities 
who act as their servants or bodyguards (low level and play¡
ers' characters do not get these allies to start with). 
Enemies: Millek often clash with Necrophim in the astral realm, 
and have very little tolerance for them. As defenders of free¡
dom, they bear nothing but hatred for the tyrannical Night¡
lords and their minions. 
6S 
Weapons and Equipment: Psionically attuned staff: 2D6 dam¡
age to most astral beings, double damage against entities and 
Necrophim; a tunic, a bag with scrolls, maps and other 
sources of knowledge. Millek do not need food to survive; 
they gain nourishment from P.P.E. (see above). 
Mountebank R.C.C. 
Conrad never saw them until they sprang from both sides of 
the road. His first impression was of comically small, squat 
dwarves. The kind of thing one would expect in a Lucas or Spiel¡
berg fantasy movie. Then he saw the daggers and swords, and 
the wide-barreled arquebuses they were carrying, and any cute¡
ness the creatures might have held had vanished. 
"Y'r money 'r y'r life!" the largest one growled, raising a 
battle-ax. The other six hooted in agreement. 
"We don' t  have time for this!" Sara Li shouted back. Her 
Morphus, intimidating as it was, had no apparent effect on the 
strange dwarves. Her stepping forward and ripping the leader's 
throat before he could react, did. Howling infear, the little mon¡
sters melted back into the ectoplasm. But they weren' t  through. 
The thunder of a gunshot shattered the air around her, and Con¡
rad screamed in pain. The bastards had aimed for his silver 
cord! 
"Go, go, go!" Sara Li yelled, firing a shadow blast into the 
swirling whiteness. A crossbow bolt flew by, missing her head by 
inches. They ran. Conrad didn't think the monsters would have 
quit, but then the Hounds he and Sara Li had been running away 
from started closing in. The little trolls tried taking the Hunters 
on, and the psychic and his Nightbane friend left them to a sav¡
age fight with no quarter asked or given. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 67 ===
These short, hunched creatures resemble mythological dwar¡
ves in size, with abnormally short legs, wide hips, and bearded 
faces. Mountebanks appear to be astral travelers, and are not na¡
tives to the Astral Plane. They are the scourge of astral space and 
countless domains and kingdoms. They live only to steal and 
cause trouble. The creatures can sometimes cross into the physi¡
cal world, but their intolerance to sunlight makes them prefer the 
Nightlands to Earth. This means marauding bands of Mounte¡
banks can be found in the Nightlands' Waste, robbing and mur¡
dering anybody they encounter. 
In the Astral Plane, the creatures travel in small groups of 6-
12 individuals, searching for prey. They love to steal weapons of 
all kinds, and they are frequently encountered carrying all man¡
ner of melee weapons, including handguns and other modem 
items. Like the Astral Lords, Mountebanks can psychically in¡
fuse weapons and other items with psionic energy, allowing the 
items to travel into the astral plane with them. This enables the 
demonic dwarves to make use of the things they steal from Earth 
(on the rare nights where they venture there) and other worlds. 
Most of their raids and incursions are into astral domains and 
kingdoms, because they find these places closer and easier pick¡
ings than travelling to other worlds. The creatures have an un¡
canny ability to avoid the traps and defenses of these realms. 
Although the Mountebanks are not extremely strong or pow¡
erful, their murderous nature and their ability to blend into the 
environment, somewhat like a chameleon, makes them very dan¡
gerous. They are fond of setting up ambush sites and have 
learned to operate in gangs where their numbers and teamwork 
work to their advantage. They are as worrisome danger as any an 
astral traveler may encounter. 
Alignment: Any evil. 
Attributes: LQ. 3D4+2, M.E. 3D4, M.A. 2D6, P.S. 2D6+6, P.P. 
3D6+3, P.E. 3D6, P.B. 2D6, Spd. 3D6 
Size: Average 4 feet tall ( 1 .2 m) 
S.D.C.: 30 (60 in the astral plane) 
Hit Points: P.E. plus I D6 per level of experience (doubled in the 
Astral Plane). 
Horror Factor: 7 (10 for a group). 
P.P.E.: 2D6 
Natural Abilities: See the invisible, sense the presence of ley 
lines, nexus points, astral domains and kingdoms up to one 
mile ( 1 .6 km) away. 
Chameleon Power: Allows the creature to blend with the 
environment. Noticing a motionless Mountebank requires a 
difficult perception roll (add +3 to the roll if the Mountebank 
is moving). 
Sense/Disarm Traps, Locks or Defenses: A "sixth sense" 
that allows the creatures to locate and disarm any trap, lock or 
defense system, magical or technological. Even the defenses 
of an astral domain may be penetrated by these creatures. Us¡
ing this ability costs 15 LS.P. and takes one minute; chance of 
success is 40% plus 3% per level of experience. Up to 5 
Mountebanks can work on the same defense; use the highest 
ability score of the group, and add +2% per additional helper, 
to a maximum bonus of +8%. 
Dimensional Travel: Mountebanks can enter or leave re¡
gions of the Astral Plane at will. This ability costs no LS.P. 
but takes one hour to perform, and it carries the Mountebank 
and anything it was carrying to a random area on Earth, the 
66 
Nightlands or the Astral Plane. This ability cannot take the 
creature to a specific locale, and when transporting to Earth, 
the creature risks exposing itself to damaging sunlight. 
Astral Reconfiguration (Objects): The Mountebank can in¡
fuse items with LS.P. energy. This process makes the objects 
"astrally sensitive"; not only can the items be taken into the 
Astral Plane, but they can be used against astral beings both 
in the material world and on the Astral Plane. The main draw¡
back is the permanent expenditure of LS.P. required to charge 
the items. LS.P. Cost (Permanent): One point per pound (0.45 
kg) of weight or fraction thereof. 
Combat: Equal to Hand to Hand: Assassin, with an additional 
attack per melee round. 
Damage: As per supernatural P.S. or weapon. 
Bonuses: +3 on perception rolls, +3 to save vs horror factor. 
Magic Powers: None. 
Psionic Powers: Can choose three physical powers. 
I.S.P.: M.E. plus I D4x lO, plus 2D4 per level of experience. 
Average Life Span: Unknown. 
Experience Level: I D4 average; leaders average I D6+2. 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: Mountebanks are extremely sensitive 
to sunlight and suffer I D6 points of damage every melee 
round they are exposed to it. Hiding in the shade will stop the 
damage, but even in the shade the creature is at -4 to all ac¡
tions and loses half its hand to hand attacks per melee. 
R.C.C. Skills: 
Native language (98%) 
Four languages of choice (+ 1 0%) 
Prowl (+15%) 
Pick Locks (+15%) 
Lore: Astral (+ 1 5%) 
Two W.P.s of choice 
Hand to Hand: Assassin 
R.C.C. Related Skills: Select seven other skills. 
Communications: None 
Domestic: Any 
Electrical: None 
Espionage: Detect ambush, detect concealment and wilder¡
ness survival only 
Mechanical: None 
Medical: None 
Military: None 
Physical: Any 
Pilot: None 
Pilot Related: None 
Rogue: Any (+ 1 0%) 
Science: None 
Technical: Languages and Lores only. 
W.P.: Any 
Wilderness: Any 
Secondary Skills: The character also gets to select five secon¡
dary skills. These are additional areas of knowledge that do 
not get the benefit of the bonus listed in parentheses. All sec¡
ondary skills start at the base level. Also, skills are limited 
(any, only, none) as previously indicated on the list. 
Alliances and Allies: None; do not work with members of any 
other race. 
Weapons and Equipment: Totally random booty (the luck of 
the draw); typically the character will have I D4 modem 
weapons, I D4 ancient weapons (sword, knife, club, cross 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 68 ===
bow, etc.), body armor from any time period, hat or helmet, 
utility belt, sack, backpack, I D4x l OOO in gold and jew¡
els/jewelry and a handful of personal items. Leaders often 
have a magic item or weapon. Modem weapons are usually in 
poor repair and will have only a few rounds of ammunition 
left. 
Tarantuloid R.C.C. 
The worst of it was, I hated bugs. 
Five, maybe six of them. Hard to tell, really, considering 
they' ve got more arms and legs than what's good for them, and 
they are so dark and furry they almost blend into each other. 
Had the wickedest-looking swords and spears I've ever seen, 
and they held 'em like they knew how to use 'em. I figured I 
wouldn't do anything to earn a demonstration. 
Why couldn't my Morphus be more spider-like? 
I tentatively raised my hand, open palm up. "Uh, I come in 
peace," I said lamely. Shoulda watched more Star Trek shows, I 
guess. 
The spiders chittered among themselves for a second. One of 
them stepped forward. "English?" it said, although it looked like 
it had to work hard to get its mandibles around our words. 
"Uh, American. I mean, yes, I speak English." Did I mention 
I do not get wittier under pressure? 
"Do. Not. Look. Human." Their spokespider pointed an accu¡
satory paw in my direction. Fortunately for both of us, I'm no 
longer sensitive about the fact that I look like an anime cyborg 
with ram's horns. 
67 
''I'm human. Well, at least, I come from Earth." 
"Earth. Mad. World. We. Visit. Do. Not. Like." 
"Everybody's a critic," I muttered under my breath. Out 
loud, I went on, "Sorry you weren' t  happy there. But how about 
I go on my way and you go on yours?" 
The spiders went back to their own chittering language. I was 
starting to get antsy. 
"You. Warrior?" asked the spokespider. 
"Yes I am," I replied glibly. 
"Then. Fight. With. Us." the talking spider pointed behind me 
and to my left. Just coming out of the fog was a band of winged 
black shapes. Necrophim or Hunters, probably both. Not my 
day. 
"Let's do it, then," I hissed. The tarantula gang stood by my 
side and we took on the Nightlord's critters. 
I still don't like bugs, but I'm getting better. 
One of the most prolific species of the Astral Plane is a race 
of fur-covered humanoids with four arms, four legs, and six bul¡
bous eyes. These creatures were nicknamed the "Tarantuloids" 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 72 ===
single mass murder. Exorcism will work against this type of 
possession, and will banish the creature from the physical 
plane for ID6 years. 
71 
Combat: Five hand to hand or psionic attacks. 
Damage: As per supernatural P.S.; talons do an additional 2D6. 
Their blood tendrils can entangle or ensnare victims, or strike, 
doing 2D4 damage. Their bite does 3D6 points of damage and 
drains astral travelers of I D6 P.P.E. or I.S.P. (starting with the 
largest energy pool first). 
Bonuses: + 1 on initiative, +2 on perception roll, +3 to strike, 
parry and dodge, +4 to roll with impact, +3 to pull punch, +5 
to save vs magic and psionics, and + 10 to save vs horror fac¡
tor. This is all in addition to any attribute bonuses. 
Magic Powers: None 
Psionic Powers: Mind block, empathy, telepathy and presence 
sense. 
Average Life Span: Unknown; presumed to be centuries. 
Experience Level: Not applicable; all their psychic powers 
work at 5th level proficiency. 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: None; as astral beings, they cannot 
be harmed by normal weapons while visiting the physical 
plane. In the Astral Plane, they can be harmed and destroyed 
by any psionic, magic or physical attacks. Remember, these 
are not true vampires, so silver, wooden stakes, crosses and 
garlic don't have any negative effects on them. 
Astral Minions 
of the Nightlords 
The Ba'al have a number of minions in the Astral Plane and 
are slowly expanding their influence there. Among them are As¡
tral Hounds and Hunters with the same abilities as their physical 
world counterparts. These creatures hunt in the Inner Plane, and 
also serve as guards in the Nightlords' astral domains. A few evil 
Astral Lords or Astral Mages have also sold their services to the 
Ba'al to gain even more power; these treacherous men and 
women combine their powers over the Astral Plane with the 
magic granted to them by Night Priests (see the Nightbane RPG, 
page 177). Other important minions are described as follows. 
Night Avatars 
Astral Avatars of the Nightlords 
The Nightlords have the ability to separate a fragment of their 
essence and send it into the Astral Plane, as well as the Dream¡
stream. These astral avatars, or "Night Avatars," act as the rulers 
of the Ba'al domains and the leaders of all astral minions. The 
Nightlords' powers over matter and energy are mimicked by 
these avatars, affecting ectoplasm in the same way their creators 
affect physical matter. Furthermore, Night Avatars have the 
power to build domains. 
Few enemies of the Nightlords have been able to learn about 
their inner politics and live to tell about it. Those few who have, 
indicate that some astral avatars seem to be more independent 
than their physical counterparts. In fact, there are rumors of 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 73 ===
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 74 ===
Night Avatars defying the commands of their creators, or at least 
twisting the letter of those commands to serve their own ends. 
Possible explanations for this behavior include the fact that 
Night Avatars are often allowed to exist for decades, and even 
centuries, which gives them a greater sense of "self' and inde¡
pendence. Another is that Nightlords have no direct access to the 
Astral Plane, so their astral avatars are removed from their direct 
influence and ire, which makes the avatar "the" power in the As¡
tral Plane, and may lead to delusions of grandeur and megaloma¡
nia. A more sinister explanation could be that some Night 
Avatars have made contact with powerful astral entities that have 
given them power in return for their service. The mysterious Ne¡
crophim (described further on) may be involved in this sort of 
corruption and betrayal. 
For the most part, avatars can only be found in the Ba'al do¡
mains, where they are well protected by a small army of super¡
natural bodyguards, or leading a true army of Hounds, Hunters 
and Necrophim. On a few occasions, a Night Avatar will travel 
alone or with only a handful of minions, usually on a secret mis¡
sion for its master, whoever it may be. 
Alignment: Any evil, but most are diabolic. 
Attributes: I.Q. 3D6+ 1 2, M.E. 3D6+ 1 2, M.A. 3D6+12, P.S. 
3D6+20, P.P. 2D6+ 16, P.E. 3D6+1 2, P.B. 3D6+6, Spd. I D6x l O  
Size: Varies, typically humanoid. 
S.D.C.: I D4x 100+ 100 
Hit Points: P.E. attribute number plus I D6x lO. 
Horror Factor: 14 
P.P.E.: I D6x 100 plus 20 per level of experience. 
Natural Abilities: Regenerate 2D6 S.D.C. or hit points per me¡
lee round and all astral powers as per Nightbane RPG, page 
70, plus can see the invisible, see through any illusions, and 
perfect nightvision (2000 feet/61O m). 
Life Force Vampirism (special): Same as Nightlords (see 
Nightbane RPG, pages 173- 174). 
Matter and Energy Control: As per Nightbane RPG, page 
174, but affecting ectoplasmic matter and energy, instead of 
physical matter. This power also works in the Dreamstream. 
Create Astral Domain: As per the Astral Lord power; most 
Night Avatars enslave Astral Lords and mages and use up their 
P.P.E. reserves to create a domain, and then have the unfortunate 
co-creators executed! 
Dreamstream Powers: Night Avatars can enter the Dream¡
stream and defend themselves against dream manipulation pow¡
ers. Avatars are at +4 in all forms of dream combat, plus M.E. 
bonuses. 
Combat: Typically hand to hand: martial arts or assassin. 
Damage: As per supernatural P.S. 
Bonuses: +3 on initiative, +5 on all perception rolls, + 1 to parry 
and dodge, +4 to roll with impact, +3 to pull punch, +4 save 
vs magic and psionics, and + 10 to save vs horror factor. This 
is in addition to possible attribute bonuses. 
Magic Powers: None; rely on their natural control over matter 
and energy. 
Psionic Powers: None, other than their astral abilities. 
Average Life Span: Until its master absorbs its essence once 
again. Some astral avatars may have made deals with power¡
ful supernatural creatures to extend this life or to become 
truly independent from their creator. 
73 
Experience Level: Half the level of its creator (typically 
I D4+3). 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: Even in astral form, Night Avatars 
take triple damage from attacks by Nightbanes and double 
damage from all supernatural creatures and magic weapons 
(not from magic spells). 
R.C.C. Skills: Same as its creator, plus has Lore: Astral at 
+25%. 
Alliances and Allies: Night Avatars typically have 10-60 
Hounds and Hunters, 5-30 Torturians and 2- 1 2  Necrophim 
and/or other astral servants. Some avatars may conspire with 
other evil forces in the Astral Plane. 
Necrophim R.C.C. 
The Necrophim are also known as the Angels of Death and 
the Dark Angels. They are supernatural beings who appear to 
live in the Astral Plane and sometimes venture into the physical 
world and the Dreamstream. These mysterious entities are some¡
times found in the service of the Nightlords and their Night Ava¡
tars, but experienced astral travelers have found evidence that the 
Necrophim may be actually serving their own interests. It ap¡
pears that these diabolic beings may be allies of convenience 
rather than minions or slaves of the Ba'al. Even Night Princes 
often show some deference to these bizarre, winged creatures. 
At first glance, the Necrophim could be mistaken for a Night¡
bane. Their skin is jet black, and black-feathered or bat-like 
wings grow out of their backs. Long, flowing, black hair frames 
their menacing face with its glowing red or yellow eyes and stem 
expression. Their mode of dress varies, from black tunics to bi¡
zarre leather suits of body armor. Long chains are attached to 
their wrists which they use as a whip to strike and entangle op¡
ponents. Some rumors claim that the Necrophim were impris¡
oned in some hellish astral kingdom until the Nightlords 
liberated them. They wear the chains as a reminder of those grim 
times and as a symbol of their defiant will which can never be 
enslaved. 
Necrophim and Guardians are implacable enemies. The dark 
angels have been known to go out of their way to destroy the 
light-wielding creatures. Many occultists believe that the Necro¡
phim were created to fight the Guardians, or vice versa. Appar¡
ently the two groups of supernatural beings have been fighting 
each other for centuries or millennia. Elder Guardians and rene¡
gade Necrophim sometimes mention an ancient war that spanned 
several dimensions. For some reason, vampires, both astral and 
their Earth-bound cousins, are also attacked on sight by the Ne¡
crophim. Even renegades do not speak of the reasons behind this 
enmity, except to point out that vampires are the enemies of all 
life. Perhaps the masters of the Necrophim are enemies or com¡
petitors of vampire intelligences. 
Although they seem to be native to the Astral Plane, the crea¡
tures have the power to transfer to the physical world and the 
Dreamstream. On Earth and in the Nightlands, the Necrophim 
can change their shape to pass as normal humans for short peri¡
ods of time. A number of them have been involved in the secret 
take-over of Earth's governments, most under the direct orders 
of the Nightlords, but not all. On occasion, Nightbanes, Spook 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 104 ===
Horror Factor: 1 5  
P.P.E.: I D4x 1 O  
Natural Abilities: 
1. Punishment Domain: This power is most often used 
against a single dream traveler or when facing a small group. 
The Guilt Eater can teleport itself and up to three victims into its 
punishment domain. This effect is a dream manipulation power 
that can be resisted as per the Dream Combat rules, but at -4. 
Once in the domain, the creatures victims are each placed in a 
dream pocket where they are confronted with a past deed or feel¡
ings of regret or guilt. The scene may end up replaying itself 
over and over (the movie Groundhog Day can be used for inspi¡
ration). It's also important to realize that these emotions may 
stem from honest feelings and things beyond the character's con¡
trol, like not being present at the moment of a loved one's death, 
feeling responsible for an accident, etc. 
The character's easiest way to escape is to somehow come to 
terms with the event or gUilty feelings. This can be as simple as 
doing the right thing in the recreation, avoiding the mistakes of 
the past, or coming to the realization that there was nothing he 
should feel guilty about, or that he has already atoned for his 
wrongdoing. Sometimes the situation is much more complicated: 
maybe the character is not even fully aware of the consequences 
of his actions, and he must spend some time in the dream con¡
struct to find out. For example, a Nightbane might have killed a 
human NSB agent who happened to be a father of five and 
thought nothing of the family the victim left behind. Sometimes, 
realizing the extent of one's sins can be a very painful price to 
escape the punishment domain. 
U sing brute force to break free from the realm utilizes the 
Dream Manipulation rules; the punishment domain rolls to re¡
sist, and has a + 10 bonus to save; only the luckiest or most pow¡
erful dream travelers can hope to escape. 
Characters under siege in a punishment domain have no in¡
itiative and all combat bonuses and skills are at half, due to the 
debilitating feelings of gUilt and sorrow. 
2. Summon Avenging Personae: This form of attack is more 
commonly used against large groups, or when the Guilt Eater is 
not particularly concerned with exploring a target's psyche. The 
entity can summon 2D6 of these dream constructs, each appear¡
ing as people wronged by the target(s) under attack. These 
avenging personas each have the same combat bonuses as the 
Guilt Eater itself. People facing the creatures may have to make 
a save versus insanity, depending on how severe the wrongdoing 
involved and how terrified they are at having to face these angry 
spirits. 
Each avenging persona inflicts 2D6 damage from (seemingly) 
physical attacks (the exact shape of the attack will vary), have 
two attacks per melee round, and have 60 S.D.C. each. They 
fight until destroyed, unless the players involved can somehow 
atone for their crimes, come to the realization that they are not 
guilty of those crimes, or role-play something that will solve the 
moral dilemma involved. (Note: The game master should make 
sure the players have more than one option available, and be pre¡
pared to be flexible. Some players will prefer to deal with these 
beings through combat, while others might role-play so bril¡
liantly the creatures might tum against their creator or smile and 
vanish if they feel the character has made atonement). 
103 
Characters under siege by avenging personas lose initiative, 
all combat bonuses are -2, and skill performance is -20% due to 
the debilitating feelings of guilt, panic and terror. The personae 
can only exist in the Dreamstream. 
3. Dream Manipulation Bonuses: +4 to defend against 
dream manipulation effects, or to resist/neutralize psionics or tal¡
ents; +8 to transport victims to the punishment domain. 
Magic Powers: Immune to magic and magical effects, weapons 
and damage! Psionics and talents work normally. 
Combat: Four hand to hand attacks per melee. 
Damage: As per supernatural P.S. 
Bonuses: +2 on initiative, +3 to strike, parry and dodge, +4 to 
pull punch, + 10 to save vs horror factor. All these are in addi¡
tion to attribute bonuses. 
Psionic Powers: See natural abilities. 
A verage Life Span: Unknown. 
Experience Level: Not applicable. 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: Guilt Eaters can be stopped by char¡
acters who refuse to be controlled by feelings of guilt, but 
who still accept and acknowledge the harm they have done 
and are willing to make (or have made) amends. Sometimes, 
such an attitude (if role-played properly) will make the char¡
acter impervious to any subsequent guilt attacks (at least until 
next time) and force the Guilt Eater to surrender, or flee, or 
even offer help or information (game master's choice). The 
latter is likely to occur as a vision of the person who was 
wronged, forgiving the character and offering helpful infor¡
mation as a peace offering (furthermore, the character is +4 to 
save if this incident/person is ever again summoned by any 
Guilt Eater). 
R.C.C. Skills: Lore: Dream (98%). 
Alliances and Allies: Guilt Eaters usually work alone and with 
their simulacra. On some occasions, an independent dream 
persona, usually one that was created as a result of guilt or 
shame, will enlist the aid of an Eater to punish the dreamer 
who created it. They also occasionally work with other evil 
beings. 
Weapons and Equipment: None. 
Dream Furies 
Constructs of pure anger, Dream Furies are fueled by the 
helpless rage all victims feel in their nightmares - the bastard 
children of hatred, destruction and revenge fantasies. The Furies 
are nearly mindless predators who will attack any dream traveler 
or natives they can find. The shapes of these creatures vary 
widely; some are monstrous and inhuman, while others appear to 
be rag-clad, emaciated figures who seem to gain strength from 
their anger and suffering. Others look like fanged humanoids 
with flowing hair and wild eyes. Sometimes the creatures change 
shapes to fit memories in the minds of their targets, usually the 
forms of bullies, abusive relatives, past opponents, or some other 
person or group that is likely to enrage the people they attack. 
Those who fight Dream Furies in the Dreamstream risk be¡
coming infected by the savage emotions of these creatures, espe¡
cially when fighting a Fury who looks like some hated figure 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 105 ===
from one's past. Those who succumb to the berserk impulses in¡
stilled by these creatures will themselves become mindless, at¡
tacking anybody near them, friend or foe. It is believed that at 
least some Dream Furies were human psychics or other travelers 
who were permanently transformed into monsters by their own 
emotions. 
Dream Furies are encountered in groups of ID4+ 1 ,  wandering 
aimlessly through the stream. The creatures can occasionally en¡
ter the Dream Pools of human sleepers, giving the sufferers terri¡
ble nightmares where they relive times in their past where they 
were victimized or provoked into violence, or just unreasonable 
anger. People affected by these dreams are much more likely to 
become violent over the next day or two (any situation that 
might provoke the character has a 01 -60% chance of causing an 
unreasonably violent or savage response). 
104 
Alignment: Possibly aberrant or diabolic. 
Attributes: Mental attributes are meaningless. P.S. 2D6+20, 
P.P. 2D6+1 2, P.E. 1 D6+20, P.B. 2D6, Spd 4D6+6 
Size: Human; roughly six feet ( 1 .8 m) tall. 
S.D.C.: P.E.x5 (no hit points applicable in the Dreamstream). 
Horror Factor: 1 D6+9 
P.P.E.: 1 D6 
Natural Abilities: In addition to understanding and speaking all 
languages, the creature has the following powers: 
1. Alter Shape: Half the members of a group of Dream Fu¡
ries will change their shape to look like old enemies from the tar¡
get's past. These shapes may inspire fear or fury, depending on 
the character's relationship with them. Resisting either emotion 
requires a save versus insanity/psionic attack. If enraged by the 
shape of the creature, the victim will behave as per the incite 
rage power described below. If fear is inspired by the shape, the 
victim reacts as if he had failed a save versus horror factor. 
Dream Furies can change their shape at will, once per melee 
round. 
2. Incite Rage: Anybody within a 20 foot (6. 1 m) radius of a 
Dream Fury must make a save versus psionic attack to avoid be¡
ing consumed by mindless rage. If the save fails, the victim will 
instantly fall into a berserker state, attacking everyone around 
him (at + 1 on initiative, + 1 to strike and parry). Enemies or peo¡
ple the character dislikes will be the first targets of such attacks, 
but even friends and loved ones may be targeted. The Dream 
Fury is not exempt from this rage, but even destroying it will not 
instantly stop the rage, it lasts for another I D6 melee rounds. 
3. Dream Combat Bonuses: Although Dream Furies cannot 
reshape reality in the Dreamstream, they are highly resistant to 
dream manipulation attacks and are +5 to save versus all such at¡
tacks. 
Combat: Four hand to hand attacks per melee. 
Damage: As per supernatural P.S. Some shapes have claws that 
inflict an additional I D6 to 2D6 damage, depending on their 
actual shape. 
Bonuses: The following bonuses apply to the Dream Furies 
themselves: + 1 on initiative, +2 to strike, parry and dodge, + 1 
to roll with impact, +2 to pull punch, +2 save vs magic, +2 to 
save vs psionics, + 10 to save vs horror factor. In addition to 
attribute bonuses. 
Magic Powers: None. 
Psionic Powers: None, other than their natural ability to inspire 
rage. 
Average Life Span: Unknown, possibly unaging. 
Experience Level: Not applicable. 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: None. 
R.C.C. Skills: None. Mindless dream constructs. 
Alliances and Allies: None. No dream creature even associates 
with them. 
Weapons: A few Dream Furies who imitate the shapes of actual 
people may be equipped with hand weapons that inflict nor¡
mal damage. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 106 ===
Dream Personae 
The personae (or personas) are the "cast of characters" that 
live in somebody's Dream Pool. Their name comes from the 
Latin term drama tis personae, the list of characters in a stage 
play. Like the characters in a theater piece, dream personae (or 
personas) play a "part" in the dreams of a person. Personas vary 
from person to person, and even from dream to dream. Each is a 
"living" embodiment of a fragment of the dreamer's personality, 
memories and/or emotions. Some are relatively harmless, or 
even humorous, but others are malevolent incarnations of a per¡
son's dark side or traumatic past. A few personas have their own 
personalities, sentience, and some measure of independence even 
when away from the "stage" of a person's dreams. This is par¡
ticularly true of "recurring" dream personas (sometimes called 
"Regulars"). Some Regulars include embodiments of lust or 
love, including movie stars, people the dreamer once had a crush 
on, and spouses or girl/boyfriends. Others are just people embed¡
ded in the dreamer's memory; teachers, family members and 
friends are fairly common personae. Unfortunately, many Regu¡
lars become semi-independent as a result of some severe trauma 
or fear. A few "good" regulars exist, typically parental figures or 
"guardian angel" characters, but most are embodiments of addic¡
tions, phobias, personality disorders or nightmarish memories. 
Evil personae often envy their creator's true independence. 
As a result, a few may actually plot to destroy or take over the 
dreamer! Some cases of "split personality" may be the result of 
personas taking over the mind of their "maker," if only tempo-
105 
rarily. Severely traumatized people can have dozens of strong 
personas, struggling for supremacy within their mind. The worst 
of such entities are sometimes given real independence by evil 
forces such as the Nightlords, and wander the Dreamstream un¡
checked. A few gain their independence during a powerful 
Dream Storm; they can even cross the line separating the Dream¡
stream from the physical world, and are able to materialize in the 
waking world (see the Living Nightmares and the Morpheo¡
moth). 
Typical Personas 
Most dream personas are simple constructs that only appear 
once in a while in a person's dreams, playing their role and re¡
taining no memories or personalities. A few, the so-called 
"Regulars," manage to develop a stronger sense of being and ac¡
tually manifest varying degrees of self awareness and individual¡
ity in the unreality of the Dream Pool where they were "born." 
Only a comparative handful ever find life in the real world, the 
vast majority (90%) live their own independent lives in the 
Dream Pool- not unlike a TV character who is spun-off into his 
own show. These Regulars are the most likely obstacle dream 
travelers face when entering a Dream Pool. 
Alignment: Special. The average persona is a simple-minded 
and/or narrowly focused entity, unable to think or reflect much 
about anything. It's simply a character in a contrived dream 
story. Consequently, any alignment may be applicable for the 
moment. A dream-self persona will typically have the same 
alignment as the dreamer. 
Regulars have much more well defined personalities and, for 
good or ill, are more human-like. The alignment of the Regular, 
even if once a dream-self persona, may have a radically different 
alignment and personality than the original, real-life dreamer. 
Also remember that many Regulars are born from reoccurring 
dreams and nightmares that are likely to have been the result of 
anxieties, fears, anger and similar strong emotions which results 
in personas with selfish or evil alignments. 
Attributes: I.Q. 3D6, M.E. 3D6, M.A. 3D6, P.S. 4D6+2, P.P. 
4D6, P.E. 4D6, P.B. 4D6, Spd. 5D6. Note: The I.Q. of the perso¡
nae cannot exceed the I.Q. of the dreamer, and most have a 
lower intelligence. Lesser persona will typically have a very low 
I.Q. and M.E. (3-5 average). Only Regulars and independent per¡
sonae can have I.Q.s in excess of 10 and are still limited by the 
I.Q. of the dreamer. 
All other attributes can be assigned by the game master as 
seems appropriate for a specific Persona. Regulars also tend to 
have higher attributes, and some of them are tremendously 
strong, attractive or fast. 
Size: Varies. Intimidating personae and authority figures may be 
larger than normal, sometimes as much as two times larger. 
Nightmare personae can be monstrous in appearance and 
tower two to four times larger than a normal human. How¡
ever, most human personae are human sized and even night¡
marish figures are seldom more than 8 to 1 2  feet (2.4 to 3.6 
m) tall. 
S.D.C.!Hit Points: Like most dream creatures, these constructs 
have no hit points. S.D.C. varies widely, from 2D6 for the 
smallest, least important personae to 4D6xl O  for major char¡
acters, Regulars and independent figures. 
Horror Factor: Most don't have any and even intimidating or 
frightening personae will only have an H.P. of I D4+6, unless 
a living nightmare. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 112 ===
fonned into a dream construct. If killed, the person will cease to 
exist. If he should escape (because the duration time of the ab¡
duction has elapsed, or by killing or chasing away the Dream 
Demon), the dreamer will wake up in his own bed and will be¡
lieve it was all a vivid, terrible nightmare. However, any damage 
the dreamer may have suffered in his battle in the Dream Pool 
remains with him in the waking world. This means any lost 
S.D.C., hit points, I.S.P., cuts, bruises, and other signs of battle 
may be inexplicably evident! 
If the character falls prey to this horrible monster, it is the 
perfect crime, since the person simply vanishes wthou 
.
a trace; 
no body or evidence of foul-play is ever found. ThIS abIhty only 
works on people who are asleep and dreaming. Furthennore, 
each attempt to "abduct" the character and drag him into his 
Dream Pool counts as a psionic attack, costs the monster 20 
I.S.P., and the dreamer automatically gets an attempt to resist via 
a save versus psionic attack. If the save fails, the victim is 
dragged into the Dreamstream. If successful, the abduction fails, 
although the Morpheomoth can try again at a cost of 20 more 
I.S.P. I.S.P.: 20 to abduct the dreamer. Duration: 20 minutes, al¡
though the Dream Demon can add one minute at the cost of ve 
I.S.P. each. Note: If the dreamer escapes because the duratIon 
time elapsed or the Morpheomoth was chased away, he instantly 
awakens in his own bed and the creature cannot attack again till 
the next night. 
111 
6. I.S.P.: 4D6x1 O  plus M.E. attribute, plus 1 0  per additional 
level of experience. 
Combat: Three hand to hand or dream manipulation attacks per 
melee round; add an additional attack at levels five, seven, 
and ten. 
Damage: As per supernatural P.S. or dream attack. 
Bonuses: +3 to strike and parry, + 1 to dodge, +4 to pull punch, 
+ 1 save vs magic, +2 to save vs psionic attack, + 12 to save vs 
horror factor. 
Magic Powers: None 
Psionic Powers: None, besides its natural dream powers. 
Average Life Span: Unknown; presumed to be centuries. 
Experience Level: Average 2D4+ 1 
Vulnerabilities/Penalties: Morpheomoths are creatures of the 
dream realm and cannot enter the waking, material world -
which is why they must pull unsuspecting dreamers into the 
Dreamstream. Likewise, they cannot exist in the Astral Plane 
or any other known worlds. 
R.C.C. Skills: Lore: Dream (+30%). 
Allies and Enemies: All Dream Demons are servants of the 
Nightlords who fear and obey Astral Avatars and assst 
Nightlord minions. How the Nightlords create these demOnIC, 
independent personas remains a mystery. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 113 ===
New Psionic Powers 
By Kevin Siembieda and C.J. Carella 
These powers are in addition to the abilities described in the 
Nightbane RPG. Additional abilities and Psychic Character 
Classes (P.c.c.s) can be found in other Palladium books like Be¡
yond the Supernatura[fM, Ninjas & SuperspiesÖ, Mystic 
ChinaÖ, and Rifts«. 
List of "New" Psionic Powers By Category 
Master Psionic Powers 
Astral Transference ( 1 5) 
Bio-Regeneration (Superior; 20) 
Block Breaker (30+) 
Dreamdance (Superior; 20) 
Gestalt Circle (30) 
Group Mind Block (22) 
Mind Block Auto-Defense (Special) 
Mind Bond (10) 
Mind Wipe (Special) 
P.P.E. Shield (10) 
Possession (30) 
Psi-Shield (30) 
Psi-Sword (30) 
Psychic Mirage (Superior; 40) 
112 
Supercharge (30) 
Telekinetic Force Field (30) 
Telemechanics (10) 
Healer Powers 
Bio-Regeneration (self; 6) 
Detect Psionics (6) 
Restore LS.P. (2+) 
Restore P.P.E. (4+) 
Suppress Fear (8) 
Sensitive Powers 
Astral Bolts (10) 
Astral Navigation (4) 
Dreamdance (Minor; 8) 
Ethereal Mirage (Minor; 6) 
Sense Dimensional Anomaly (6) 
Physical Powers 
Activate Dimensional Portal (10) 
Telekinetic Punch (6) 
Telekinetic Leap (8) 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


=== PAGE 114 ===
Master Psionics (New) 
Beyond the three "common" categories of Healing, Sensitive 
and Physical, exists the "master" (or superior) psychic power 
category. Master psionic powers are abilities beyond the ken of 
most human and Nightbane psychics, or are attainable only after 
lesser psionic abilities have been mastered. Outlined below are 
some suggestions on how to add these abilities to existing 
P.c.c.s and R.C.C.s 
The Psychic p.e.e. and Master Psionics: The Psychic 
P.c.c. (as described on the Nightbane RPG, page 69) can select 
a power from the Master Psionics category at levels three, five, 
eight, eleven and fourteen. However, this is in place of choosing 
a power from any of the other categories; only one new power is 
selected per level of experience. 
Guardian Super-Psionics: Guardians can choose master 
psionic powers after reaching the fourth level of experience; in 
other words, they can choose a power from any category, includ¡
ing master psionics, after reaching fourth level. 
Note: Additional psionic powers are also provided for the 
other categories as well. Game Masters can automatically in¡
clude these new powers for all psychic characters or consider 
them optional suggestions to be added if he or she feels they are 
appropriate to the campaign. 
Astral Transference 
Range: Self 
Duration: One hour per level of experience 
I.S.P.: 15 
Saving Throw: None 
Prerequisite: Astral Projection. 
This powerful ability transforms the character's body into an 
astral construct, similar to an entity or other energy beings, and 
able to travel astrally. One might consider this power a sort of 
"super" astral projection. Unlike normal astral projection, the en¡
tire body of the character is transformed into an astral energy be¡
ing, so the body is not left behind and the duration for astral 
travel is much greater. All the abilities and benefits of the astral 
projection power (see Nightbane RPG, page 70) apply to this 
form as well, except there is no silver cord involved. 
Bio-Regeneration (Superior) 
Range: Self 
Duration: Permanent 
I.S.P.: 20 
Saving Throw: None 
Another bio-manipulation power that enables the psionic to di¡
rect his psychic energy to immediate self-healing. The character 
must concentrate for one full minute while his body instantly 
heals itself. 4D6 hit points and 4D6 S.D.C points are simultane¡
ously restored at the end of 60 seconds. As usual, there is no 
scarring. 
Block Breaker 
Range: 60 feet ( 1 8.3 m) plus 10 feet (3.0 m) per level of experi¡
ence. 
Duration: ID4 melee rounds ( 1 5  to 60 seconds). 
I.S.P.: Varies; 30+ 
Saving Throw: Varies, see below. 
113 
This power attacks a psychic's mind block in an attempt to tem¡
porarily lower the target's defenses. If the block breaker is suc¡
cessful, the character's mind block is removed for I D4 melee 
rounds, at the end of which the victim may restore the block by 
spending I.S.P. normally. The character under attack by the 
block breaker gets to save versus psionic attack, but the attacker 
can raise the save difficulty by spending more I.S.P. 
The base cost of the ability is 30 I.S.P., however the attacker 
can make his victim - 1  to save at the cost of + 10 additional I.S.P. 
For example, an attacker could spend the base 30 I.S.P. plus an¡
other 40 points (70 total) to make his intended victim -4 to save 
against the block breaker attack. If the defender fails to save, his 
mind block is temporarily down for I D4 melee rounds, during 
which time he or she cannot shield himself from psionic probes 
and other psionic influences. 
Dreamdance (Superior) 
Range: Self 
Duration: One hour per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 20 
Saving Throw: None 
Prerequisite: Dreamdance (Minor) 
This power transforms the psychic's body into a dream crea¡
ture, enabling the character to enter the Dreamstream body and 
soul. Doing this has its dangers, including the fact that the dream 
traveler is not able to escape the Dreamstream by waking up. 
While in the Dreamstream, the psychic can enter other people's 
Dream Pools, and use psionics or other abilities to affect the 
dreams of the dreamer. At the end of the power's duration, or 
whenever the character decides to return to the waking world, 
the Dream Dancer will reappear at the physical location he origi¡
nally left. 
Gestalt Circle 
Range: Touch; psychics must form a circle and hold hands. 
Duration: One minute per participant. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: None 
The psionic character can link a group of psychics (one per 
level of experience) together and pool their powers! While 
linked in a gestalt circle, the group can only use those powers 
they have in common, but those powers can be manipulated at a 
level equal to their combined levels of experience. For example, 
a gestalt circle with one third level psychic and two second level 
ones could use any common powers at seventh level intensity! 
Furthermore, the combined number of I.S.P. is available to the 
group (use is divided equally), and the range of the psionic pow¡
ers are increased by 20% per each psychic in the circle. The lat¡
ter only works if the range of the power is NOT affected by the 
level of experience of the psychic. Otherwise, range by level 
counts as the combined level of the group (in the previous exam¡
ple, the range would be at 7th level equivalent). 
Total number of psionic attacks per melee round is two per 
participant in the circle. The maximum number of participants is 
eight (8). 
A gestalt circle has its dangers and limitations. 
1. While the psychics are linked, the connection will override 
any mind blocks or similar protection between the members par¡
ticipating in the gestalt circle. This means that any psychic in the 
circle can try to read the minds of the others or use other psychic 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)


