Dream Dancer P. C.C. 
Explorers and travele rs, Dream Dancers are psychics who can 
enter the Dreamstream at will, although they lack most of the 
powerful abilities of the Dream Maker. The Dancers have a great 
deal of control over their own dream-selves, and can reshape 
themsel ves, raise their attributes, and resist dream manipula tion 
attacks . They cannot build Dream Doma ins, kill people in their 
dreams, or open windows into or out of the Dreamstream. On the 
other hand, they tend to have a wid er variety of psychic powers 
in addition to their dream abilit ies. In some ways, their reduced 
abil ity to affect the reality of the Dreamstream is a blessi ng in 
disguise, as Dream Dancers are not prone to falling prey to in­
sanity . 
The distinction between Dream Dancers and Dream Makers 
is often lost to "outsid ers," but there is an ongoing rivalry be­
tween the two groups. Dream Makers tend to look down on their 
less powerful brethren, while the Dancers often cons ider their 
counterparts to be half-insa ne, power-hungry psychotic s. This ri­
valry is not actively hostile, however, and both the Order of 
Morpheus and the Dream Riders (see the Dream Factions sec­
tion) incl ude Dream Makers and Dancers . 
Dream Dancer P.C.C. Abil ities and Bonuses : 
1. Dream Travel: Dream Dancers can enter the Dreamstream 
psychically or physically. In the first case, they leave their body 
in the real world, while in the second way they enter the Dream­
stream body and soul . The two abilities work exactly like the 
psionic powers Dreamdance (Minor) and Dreamdance (S uperior) 
respect ively . 
More importantly, Dream Dancers can leave the Dreamstream 
at the physical loca tion they started from (as per the Dreamdance 
power) , or they can also choose to leave within 10 0 feet (30.5 m) 
of the loca tion of any slee ping person whose Dream Pool they 
have entered. This allows Dream Dancers to cover great dis­
tances on Earth by traveling from a dreamer 's loca tion to the 
next. However, the Dream Dancer is limit ed by the fact that en­
tering a Dream Pool at random can take him anywhere in the 
world. The only sure way to get to a des ired dest ination is to 
know the person whose Dream Pool one is entering, and to know 
where that person is sl eeping at that time. Example: Roger, 
Dream Dancer extraordinaire, needs to get from Vancouver to 
Los Angeles in a hUrry. His problem is, the only person he 
knows in California is an old girlfriend, an aspiring actress he 
has not seen in years . Roger decides to chance it anyway, enters 
the Dreamstream and searches for his ex-g irlfriend 's Dream 
Pool; it takes him a while (see the Dreamdance psionic power 
for more information) , and then he has to wait until she falls 
asleep , but he finally gets into her Dream Pool. Unfortunately, 
she is having a nasty nightmare . Roger decides to be a pal, helps 
her out of the nightmare, gives her a good-bye kiss for old times' 
sake, and leaves the Dreamstream. As it turns out, his ex is 
spending the night in a Beverly Hills mansion; Roger material­
izes under her bed, and sneaks out of the house. If he had been 
less lucky , the woman mig ht have moved to New York or any­
where in the world, so Roger 's dream trip would have been a 
waste . Duration: Indefinite; Dream Dancers can stay in the 
96 
Dreamstream as long as they wish. LS .P. Cost: None; automatic 
for this character. 
2. Dream Manipulation: The Dream Dancer can alter the 
"reality " of the Dreamstream, but to a les ser degree than the 
Dream Maker. Most of the dancer 's powers work only on him­
self , and have little effect over others . On the other hand, dream 
dancers are nearly immune to the dream manipula tion powers of 
other entities and psychics in the dream worlds. See the Reshape 
Self and Increase Attributes powers , below. The character can re­
sist any dream manipulation directed towards him; he can also 
counteract any spells, psionic powers or other supernatural abili­
ties directed towards him, but not any ability affecting others , or 
the environment around him. 
Dream Dancers can also heal themselves in the same manner 
as the Dream Maker, restoring ID 6 S. D.C. for every one LS .P. 
spent; this healing counts as one melee action. 
3. Reshape Self: The character can change his/her shape 
while in the Dreamstream . The shape can be as attractive or hor­
rific as the character wish es. Additional ly, the dream dancer can 
try to mimic the forms of actual people, such as famous person­
alities, people in a dreamer's memorie s, etc . LS .P. Cost: Varies. 
The base cost is 5 points to alter one 's shape; basic P.B. of the 
form is 10. By spending additional LS.P., the character can in­
crease the attractiven ess of the character or can give himself a 
horror factor. This costs one LS.P. per + 1 to P.B . (maximum 24 
for 14 LS. P., 19 LS.P. total), or + 1 to horror factor (starts out at 
0; maximum H.F. 17 for 17 points, 22 LS.P. total). 
Trying to simula te a real person requires a skill roll (30% 
+5% per level of experience, plus LQ bonuses, if any). If the per­
son to be simula ted is well known or is somebody the character 
has spent a great deal of time study ing, the roll is at +5 to + 15% 
(G.M. 's call ). The attempt costs an additional 10 LS .P. Example: 
Joanne, a 7th level Dream Dancer, has entered the Dream Pool 
of a Preserver activist she wishes to scare. She decides to take on 
the appearance of the character 's mother, who has often ap­
peared in the person 's nightmar es. She wishes to make her really 
terrifying, so Joanne enhances the impersonation with a horror 
factor of 15. The transformation costs 10 LS .P, plus the horror 
factor and base cost which raises the total to 30 LS .P. Her base 
skill roll to take on the form of the victim 's mother is 65%; she 
succee ds. The vic tim dreams that his abusive mother has come 
back from the gra ve, and is standing in front of him, cov ered in 
mold, pointing an accusa tory finger at him. The game mast er 
rules that the way Joanne contrived her appearance raises the 
horror factor to 18! The character wakes up screaming and howl­
ing, and gets no more sleep that night. 
4. Increase Attributes: The character can raise his phy sica l 
attributes while in the Dreamstream. The actual increase is lim­
ited by the character 's will power (M.E.) and costs LS .P. to main­
tain. P.S. and P.E. can be raised by + 1 per each M.E. point (i.e., a 
character with P.S. 8 in the real world and an M.E. of 15 could 
raise his P.S. to 23 while in the Dreamstream ). P.P. can be in­
creased by +1 per 4 points of M.E., rounded down (in the pre­
vious example, the character could add +3 to his P.P .). S. D.C. 
can be increased by M.E. x3 (+45 S. D.C. for an M.E. of 15, for 
example). Duration: 2 minutes per level of experienc e. I.S. P. 
Cost: 5 per attribute (P.S., P.E., P.P. or S. D.C.) increased; each 
attribute must be "paid for" separately. Any one attribute can be 
raised indiv idua lly, or all four can be increased for a total of 20 
I.S .P. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)