5. Dream Combat Bonuses: +2 at level one, +1 at levels 
three, six, nine, twelve and fifteen, in addition to M.E. bonuses, 
if any. 
6. Ot her Psionic Powers: In addition to his powe rs over 
dreams, the character has some minor psionic abiliti es. Select 
one power from each of the sensitive, healing and physica l cate­
gories at level one, for a total of three psionic powers . Every 
level after the first, select one power from any of those three 
categor ies. 
7. I.S.P.: M.E. x3 plus 2D6 per level of exper ience. 
Attribute Requirements: M.E. 12 or higher. 
P.C.C. Skills: Dream Dancers often spend so much time wan­
dering the Dreamstream that they learn little about the ways 
of the world. Many of them, however, had harsh childhood s, 
often in the slums of cities or in poor Third World countries; 
the skill list below reflects this life. Modif ications and addi­
tions based on the character 's background may be made at the 
game master's dis cretion. 
Language and litera cy: Native language (98 %) 
Lore : Dreamstream (+20%) 
Two technical skil ls of choice (+ 1 0%) 
Two domestic ski lls of choice (+5 % ) 
One rogue skill of choice (+ 1 0% ) 
Hand to Hand : Ba sic 
Hand to hand : basic can be changed to hand to hand : expert at 
the cost of one "other" skill or to martial arts (or assassin if an 
evil alignme nt) at the cost of two "other" skills. 
P.C.c. Related Skills: Select eight other skill s. Plus select one 
additional skill at levels three, five, eight, eleven and thirteen. 
All new skills start at level one proficiency. Skills should re­
flect the character' s background. Game masters should feel 
free to disallow any skill that makes no sense given the char­
acter 's history - or to allow a character to get a restricted 
skill if the player can come up with a good enough reason for 
it. 
Communica tion s: Any 
Domest ic: Any (+5 %) 
Elect rical : Any 
Espiona ge: Wilderne ss survival only . 
Mecha nica l: Any 
Medical : First aid, paramedic or holi stic medicine only. 
Milita ry: None 
Phys ical : Any 
Pilot: Any 
Pilot Related: Any 
Rogue : Any (+5 %) 
Sc ience : Any 
Technical : Any (+5 %) 
W.P. : Any 
Wilderness: Any (+5 %) 
Secondary Skills: The character also gets to select six secondary 
skill s. These are additional areas of knowledge that do not get 
the benefit of the bonuses li sted in parentheses. All seconda ry 
skills start at the base skill level. Also, skills are lim ited (any , 
only, none) as previously indica ted on the list. 
Standard Equipment: Most Dream Dancers spend most of their 
time in the dream world s, and own very little beyond the 
clothes on their back. Some use their dream travel ability to 
commit crimes to further their finance s, but most of them do 
not see the need for this. Starts out with 1D 6x 10 0 dolla rs in 
equipment. 
Money: Typically 1D 4x 10 0 dolla rs in cash. 
Deniz ens of the Dr eamst ream 
Drea m Ghouls 
They are the monsters under the bed, the bogey-men in the 
closet, the mischievous little things that follow you in your 
dreams, the ones you are so afraid to see if you turn around. 
They are the Dream Ghoul s. Fear for your children , for some­
times the Ghoul s can slip through the cracks between realities, 
and make their worst fears come true. 
- J' inn At Kadhim, Dream Maker 
These strange denizens of the Dreamstream are small crea­
tures, rarely taller than four feet (1. 2 m) in height. Beyond that 
generality , their individual looks have little in common , except 
they are embodiments of the fears and nightmares suffered by 
small child ren. Some look like disfigu red goblins, while others 
have animal features, or look like malicious animated dolls and 
toys. These creatures are the mon sters that haunt the dark do­
mains under the bed, under the stairs , close ts , and imaginations 
of most child hoods. In the Dreamstream they sometimes travel 
in small packs, and may attack a lone dream traveler, bringing 
him down and consuming his psychic body for nouri shment. 
98 
They often make their homes in the Dream Pools of young chil­
dren, and may attack intruders from ambush. 
Unl ike most dwel lers of the dream worlds, dream ghou ls ca n 
sometimes materi alize in the physica l world without the need of 
portals or other supernatural means. Very imaginative child ren 
(who also tend to have the most potential psychic energy ) some­
times release enough energy through their dreams to allow the 
little mon sters to sli p through. Once in the real world, the dream 
ghouls have a physical body and can be extremely dangerous. 
For the most part, they hide in the shadows and under furniture. 
Some reshape themselves to look like a favorite toy (which they 
smash to bits and then hide under carpets or beds); usually a doll 
or stuffed animal . Then they start draining the energy of the 
child who brought them into the real world, slowly feeding on 
the victim 's life force and psychic energy (P.P. E.). 
Children victimized by a dream ghoul are sickly and weak, 
often suffering from the symptoms of asthm a. Where they once 
were creati ve and viva cio us, the drained vic tim will be li stle ss, 
morose and uncommunica tive. Left unchecked, the ghoul has a 
10 % chance of eventually killing the child ! Many such deaths 
are attributed to "crib death" (in the case of infants) or other "ra-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)