===== idx 112 =====
New Psionic Powers 
By Kevin Siembieda and C.J. Carella 
These powers are in addition to the abilities described in the 
Nightbane RPG. Additional abilities and Psychic Character 
Classes (P.c.c.s) can be found in other Palladium books like Be¡
yond the Supernatura[fM, Ninjas & SuperspiesÖ, Mystic 
ChinaÖ, and Rifts«. 
List of "New" Psionic Powers By Category 
Master Psionic Powers 
Astral Transference ( 1 5) 
Bio-Regeneration (Superior; 20) 
Block Breaker (30+) 
Dreamdance (Superior; 20) 
Gestalt Circle (30) 
Group Mind Block (22) 
Mind Block Auto-Defense (Special) 
Mind Bond (10) 
Mind Wipe (Special) 
P.P.E. Shield (10) 
Possession (30) 
Psi-Shield (30) 
Psi-Sword (30) 
Psychic Mirage (Superior; 40) 
112 
Supercharge (30) 
Telekinetic Force Field (30) 
Telemechanics (10) 
Healer Powers 
Bio-Regeneration (self; 6) 
Detect Psionics (6) 
Restore LS.P. (2+) 
Restore P.P.E. (4+) 
Suppress Fear (8) 
Sensitive Powers 
Astral Bolts (10) 
Astral Navigation (4) 
Dreamdance (Minor; 8) 
Ethereal Mirage (Minor; 6) 
Sense Dimensional Anomaly (6) 
Physical Powers 
Activate Dimensional Portal (10) 
Telekinetic Punch (6) 
Telekinetic Leap (8) 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== idx 113 =====
Master Psionics (New) 
Beyond the three "common" categories of Healing, Sensitive 
and Physical, exists the "master" (or superior) psychic power 
category. Master psionic powers are abilities beyond the ken of 
most human and Nightbane psychics, or are attainable only after 
lesser psionic abilities have been mastered. Outlined below are 
some suggestions on how to add these abilities to existing 
P.c.c.s and R.C.C.s 
The Psychic p.e.e. and Master Psionics: The Psychic 
P.c.c. (as described on the Nightbane RPG, page 69) can select 
a power from the Master Psionics category at levels three, five, 
eight, eleven and fourteen. However, this is in place of choosing 
a power from any of the other categories; only one new power is 
selected per level of experience. 
Guardian Super-Psionics: Guardians can choose master 
psionic powers after reaching the fourth level of experience; in 
other words, they can choose a power from any category, includ¡
ing master psionics, after reaching fourth level. 
Note: Additional psionic powers are also provided for the 
other categories as well. Game Masters can automatically in¡
clude these new powers for all psychic characters or consider 
them optional suggestions to be added if he or she feels they are 
appropriate to the campaign. 
Astral Transference 
Range: Self 
Duration: One hour per level of experience 
I.S.P.: 15 
Saving Throw: None 
Prerequisite: Astral Projection. 
This powerful ability transforms the character's body into an 
astral construct, similar to an entity or other energy beings, and 
able to travel astrally. One might consider this power a sort of 
"super" astral projection. Unlike normal astral projection, the en¡
tire body of the character is transformed into an astral energy be¡
ing, so the body is not left behind and the duration for astral 
travel is much greater. All the abilities and benefits of the astral 
projection power (see Nightbane RPG, page 70) apply to this 
form as well, except there is no silver cord involved. 
Bio-Regeneration (Superior) 
Range: Self 
Duration: Permanent 
I.S.P.: 20 
Saving Throw: None 
Another bio-manipulation power that enables the psionic to di¡
rect his psychic energy to immediate self-healing. The character 
must concentrate for one full minute while his body instantly 
heals itself. 4D6 hit points and 4D6 S.D.C points are simultane¡
ously restored at the end of 60 seconds. As usual, there is no 
scarring. 
Block Breaker 
Range: 60 feet ( 1 8.3 m) plus 10 feet (3.0 m) per level of experi¡
ence. 
Duration: ID4 melee rounds ( 1 5  to 60 seconds). 
I.S.P.: Varies; 30+ 
Saving Throw: Varies, see below. 
113 
This power attacks a psychic's mind block in an attempt to tem¡
porarily lower the target's defenses. If the block breaker is suc¡
cessful, the character's mind block is removed for I D4 melee 
rounds, at the end of which the victim may restore the block by 
spending I.S.P. normally. The character under attack by the 
block breaker gets to save versus psionic attack, but the attacker 
can raise the save difficulty by spending more I.S.P. 
The base cost of the ability is 30 I.S.P., however the attacker 
can make his victim - 1  to save at the cost of + 10 additional I.S.P. 
For example, an attacker could spend the base 30 I.S.P. plus an¡
other 40 points (70 total) to make his intended victim -4 to save 
against the block breaker attack. If the defender fails to save, his 
mind block is temporarily down for I D4 melee rounds, during 
which time he or she cannot shield himself from psionic probes 
and other psionic influences. 
Dreamdance (Superior) 
Range: Self 
Duration: One hour per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 20 
Saving Throw: None 
Prerequisite: Dreamdance (Minor) 
This power transforms the psychic's body into a dream crea¡
ture, enabling the character to enter the Dreamstream body and 
soul. Doing this has its dangers, including the fact that the dream 
traveler is not able to escape the Dreamstream by waking up. 
While in the Dreamstream, the psychic can enter other people's 
Dream Pools, and use psionics or other abilities to affect the 
dreams of the dreamer. At the end of the power's duration, or 
whenever the character decides to return to the waking world, 
the Dream Dancer will reappear at the physical location he origi¡
nally left. 
Gestalt Circle 
Range: Touch; psychics must form a circle and hold hands. 
Duration: One minute per participant. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: None 
The psionic character can link a group of psychics (one per 
level of experience) together and pool their powers! While 
linked in a gestalt circle, the group can only use those powers 
they have in common, but those powers can be manipulated at a 
level equal to their combined levels of experience. For example, 
a gestalt circle with one third level psychic and two second level 
ones could use any common powers at seventh level intensity! 
Furthermore, the combined number of I.S.P. is available to the 
group (use is divided equally), and the range of the psionic pow¡
ers are increased by 20% per each psychic in the circle. The lat¡
ter only works if the range of the power is NOT affected by the 
level of experience of the psychic. Otherwise, range by level 
counts as the combined level of the group (in the previous exam¡
ple, the range would be at 7th level equivalent). 
Total number of psionic attacks per melee round is two per 
participant in the circle. The maximum number of participants is 
eight (8). 
A gestalt circle has its dangers and limitations. 
1. While the psychics are linked, the connection will override 
any mind blocks or similar protection between the members par¡
ticipating in the gestalt circle. This means that any psychic in the 
circle can try to read the minds of the others or use other psychic 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== idx 114 =====
powers on the other members, and can do so with relative impu¡
nity. 
2. One psychic in the group must be designated as the "key" 
or spokesperson through which their combined powers are di¡
rected. Only that key character can use the enhanced psionics of 
the circle, although the others can make verbal or telepathic sug¡
gestions. If another member in the circle tries to use one of his 
powers at the same time as the designated "key," neither power 
works, which means one melee action/attack is lost and half the 
LS.P. of the intended power is expended without results! Team¡
work is critical. 
3. Participants in the circle cannot perform any other skills, 
engage in physical combat or parry, without breaking the circle. 
Each character can try to "duck" incoming attacks without 
breaking ranks as a dodge at -5 to do so. 
4. If even one member of the circle breaks ranksllets go of an¡
other participant's hand(s), the gestalt circle is instantly broken, 
all circle bonuses are lost, and the participants must rebuild the 
circle and spend another 30 LS.P. to start again. 
Group Mind Block 
Range: 1 20 feet (36.5 m) 
Duration: 10 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 22 
Saving Throw: None 
The master psionic can instantly erect a mental barrier or 
mind block to protect himself and those around him, within a 
120 foot (36.5 m) area. The group mind block works just like the 
individual mind block power. It can be a means of protecting 
those around the psychic from psionic probes and mind attacks, 
but it can also be used to prevent outside forces (good or evil) 
from communicating via telepathy or empathy. Everyone within 
the 120 foot (36.5 m) area of effect will be automatically 
blocked, but the effect is not detectable so they are not likely to 
know they are being mind blocked. The detect psionics power 
will indicate a group mind block. 
Mind Block Auto-Defense 
Range: Self 
Duration: Special 
I.S.P.: Special 
Saving Throw: None 
The moment the psychic is being mind probed, a personal 
mind block automatically snaps into place. It also alerts the 
psionic to the fact he or she is being probed or attacked by em¡
pathy or telepathy. The character must consciously and willingly 
lower the mind shield to open himself to psychic probes. Other¡
wise, the automatic defense mind block will stay in effect until 
the probe/attack is over. 
The LS.P. cost is different in that the character must perma¡
nently give up 10 LS.P. when this power is selected. However, 
the mind block will automatically take place whenever under 
telepathic and empathic probes/attacks at no additional LS.P. 
cost; it engages automatically. 
Mind Bond 
Range: Touch 
Duration: Special 
I.S.P.: 1 0  
Saving Throw: Standard 
114 
This creates an instant mind link between the psychic and the 
victim. When this happens, each will ieam everything there is to 
know about the other. This includes all skills, secret identities, 
phobias, etc. In both cases, the memory is complete for only 3D4 
hours; after that, the character must roll under 15% to recall any 
particular item. After one month, all memories completely disap¡
pear. Players should bear in mind that only the psychic knows 
the memories are not permanent, thus the other person would 
have no reason to make notes or act quickly before the new 
memories fade. 
Note: Skills and skill bonuses are also temporarily absorbed, 
meaning that the psychic possesses all of his victim's skills and 
skill bonuses. Physical attributes, such as S.D.C. and attribute 
bonuses gained through physical training are not gained. 
Alien or extremely mentally or emotionally disturbed minds 
can permanently impair the psychic's own mind as a result of 
the bond. If bonded with an alien or extremely disturbed person, 
roll on the following tables for a permanent insanity. 
1-40 No Insanity 
41-80 Phobia 
81-90 Affective Disorder 
91-00 Neurosis 
Mind Wipe 
Range: Touch 
Duration: Special 
I.S.P.: Special 
Saving Throw: Standard 
To mind wipe an intelligent creature, the psychic must make 
physical contact, touching his victim's temples to erase whatever 
he desires. This is done by verbal suggestion and can erase any 
past event, knowledge, skill, and so on. The process takes about 
three minutes to complete. 
The loss of memory is temporary, lasting I D4 days for every 
1 0  LS.P. expended. The memory can be permanently erased if 
the psychic exerts 50 LS.P. at once. A psionic can also perma¡
nently wipe a mind completely blank by expending 50 LS.P. and 
four Mental Endurance (M.E.) points. This is an extremely gru¡
eling process for the psychic and the loss of four M.E. points is 
permanent, even if the opponent successfully saves against the 
wipe and is not affected. 
P.P.E. Shield 
Range: Self 
Duration: 6 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 10 
Saving Throw: None 
A psionic defense that can be used to prevent P.P.E. vam¡
pires, mages and other entities from siphoning off one's psychic 
energy. The shield works similarly to a mind block, only it pre¡
vents others from draining one's P.P.E. 
Possession 
Range: Touch 
Duration: 5 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: Standard 
The psychic can completely take over and control another 
person. The psychic essence of the controlling mind is trans¡
ferred into the body of another individual. While in the victim's 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== idx 115 =====
body/mind, the psychic retains all his own knowledge and iden¡
tity. He cannot read the mind of the person he now possesses, 
nor access any knowledge from the victim's memory. Only the 
physical body can be controlled, like a living robot. 
During the period that the victim is possessed, that person 
goes into a trance state and remembers nothing about the things 
that happened while he was possessed. Meanwhile, the psychic's 
natural body falls into a coma-like state and is vulnerable to at¡
tack unless protected by others. 
The possessing character can return to his own body at any 
time regardless of distance. When his essence leaves the body of 
the possessed, the victim suddenly becomes conscious again, as 
if suddenly being woken up. 
Psi-Shield 
Range: Self 
Duration: 5 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: None 
A companion power to the psi-sword, in which the psychic 
can create an energy shield out of thin air. The shield can be 
used to parry all hand to hand attacks, but not against projec¡
tiles/bullets. Shield S.D.C. is 1 20. 
Psi-Sword 
Range: Self 
Duration: 5 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: None 
Prerequisite: Third level of experience. 
Psi-swords are psychic energy weapons that the character can 
mentally will into existence. The sword appears out of thin air as 
a shimmering blade of energy that resembles a glowing sword. 
The sword's actual appearance will generally reflect its creator. 
A character who is impressed by strength and power will create 
a huge claymore-like weapon, while somebody who prides him¡
self on speed and agility will create a rapier or saber. Each 
weapon is equally powerful regardless of its form and size. The 
blade can even change color and shape to fit the current mood of 
its wielder. 
Psi-sword damage: 6D6 at level three (one cannot select this 
power until level three). Add I D6 at levels four, seven, nine, 
twelve and fifteen. The damage can be adjusted to inflict a mini¡
mum of 2D6 damage points, or increased by increments of ID6 
up to the character's current maximum. 
Psychic Mirage (Superior) 
Range: 1 20 feet/36.5 m (size of illusion is 3 feet/0.9 m per level 
of experience). 
Duration: One minute per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 40 
Saving Throw: Standard. 
A powerful illusion that affects all senses. The illusion will 
move and act out any mental commands given by its creator, and 
will fool the ears, sense of touch and pain centers of those who 
face it. Illusionary damage will not do any permanent damage, 
although people who think they have been killed will collapse 
into unconsciousness. This illusion can be created in most planes 
of existence, including Earth, Nightlands, Astral Plane and 
Dreamstream. 
115 
Supercharge 
Range: Self 
Duration: One minute per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: None 
Prerequisite: Summon Inner Strength 
This power channels the character's psychic energies into his 
own body, temporarily granting him +6 to P.S., which becomes 
supernatural, and an additional 40 S.D.C. for the duration of the 
power. This power is especially handy when combating vam¡
pires and other superhuman monstrosities. Note: In games like 
Rifts«, punches and kicks with supernatural P.S. inflict mega¡
damage, but the I.S.P. cost is 40 instead of 30. 
Telekinetic Force Field 
Range: Self or 40 feet ( 1 2.2 m) per level of experience. 
Duration: Five minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 30 
Saving Throw: None 
The psychic can instantly erect a force field around himself or 
others in the blink of an eye. If the creation of the force field is 
to parry an attack, the psionic must roll a successful parry to see 
if he was able to create the field before the attack struck. A suc¡
cessful parry means the force field beat the attacker's strike and 
it absorbs the damage. 
The force field can be made so that it only encircles its crea¡
tor or as large as a 10 foot (3.0 m) area per level of experience. It 
can also be created yards away, but always within the line of vi¡
sion of the psychic. The smallest force field possible covers a 
three foot area (0.9 m). The field protects with 1 30 S.D.C, plus 
20 S.D.C. per level of experience. When its S.D.C. is destroyed 
so is the field. People may be able to move around inside the 
force field, but the force field itself cannot be moved. The psy¡
chic can create additional force fields, as many as his I.S.P. will 
allow. 
Telemechanics 
Range: Touch or up to 5 feet ( 1 .5 m) away. 
Duration: 10 minutes plus 2 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 10 
Saving Throw: None 
This ability allows the psionic to mentally communicate with 
and understand machines. This psychic power is a bizarre com¡
bination of object read and telepathy, except that it applies to 
mechanical devices only. 
By touching any non-artificially intelligent machine, whether 
it be a bicycle, gun, car or airplane, the psychic will instantly 
have a complete (although temporary) knowledge of exactly 
how the machine is operated. The psychic knows everything 
about the machine; the complete schematic diagram and opera¡
tion knowledge are clearly seen in his mind's eye. The level of 
skill expertise is equal to 80% and of professional quality. 
When touching a computer, the psychic not only understands 
everything about its operation, repair, access codes, etc., but can 
actually communicate with it telepathically. This means he can 
tap into a computer's memory bank without using a terminal be¡
cause the information is sent directly into the psychic's mind. 
Remember, the telepathic link and memory are temporary abili¡
ties. The psychic's skill knowledge is equal to 88% skill profi-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

