===== PRINTED PAGE 77 idx 76 =====
of psychic abilities, the level of P.P.E., and possession by a 
supernatural force. 
All things, organic and inorganic, have an aura. The aura has 
many distinctions and can be used to see or sense things invis¡
ible to the eye. Seeing an aura will indicate thejollowing: 
ò Estimate the general level of experience. Low ( 1 -3), medium 
(4-7), high (8th and up). 
ò The presence of magic (no indication of what or power level). 
ò The presence of psychic abilities. 
ò High or low base P.P.E. 
ò The presence of a possessing entity. 
ò The presence of an unusual human aberration which indicates 
a serious illness, non-human, or mutant, but does not specify 
which. 
Note: Can not tell one's alignment from "see aura." 
See The Invisible 
Range: 1 20 foot/36 m distances. 
Duration: 1 minute per each level of experience. 
IoSoP.: 4 
Saving Throw: None 
The character can see forces, objects and creatures which can 
tum invisible or are naturally invisible. Even if the creatures 
have no form per se, the psychic will be able to discern the va¡
porous image or energy sphere which is the being. This includes 
ghosts, entities and the astral body. 
Sense Evil 
Range: 140 foot/42.7 m area. 
Duration: 2 minutes (8 melees) per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 2 
Saving Throw: None 
This psi-power is a much more refined ability to feel the pres¡
ence of evil. All supernatural creatures radiate their alignment, 
good or evil. A psychic sensitive will automatically feel super¡
natural evil without spending a single I.S.P. However, to get a 
clearer picture of the evil force(s) the character must open him¡
self and use the sense evil ability. 
The sense evil psi-power will indicate the general number of 
supernatural evil: one, a few (2-6), several (7-14), or many ( 1 5  
or more). It can also register the intensity of the evil and pinpoint 
the general location of the source(s) to a particular room(s), pos¡
sessed object or person, or distance; i.e. very near (within 1 5  
feet/4.5 m), near (within 5 0  feet/15.2 m), or far (60 to 140 
feet/1 8.2 to 42.7 m). The character can track the source of super¡
natural evil, like a bloodhound, by sensing how close it is to him. 
76 
Evil emanations from human beings are much less distinct 
and can not be felt unless the source-person has an immediate 
evil intention and has psychic powers or is psychotic. The for¡
mer can mask his evil intentions with a mind block. 
Sense Magic 
Range: 1 20 foot/36 m area 
Duration: 2 minutes per level of experience. 
IoSoP.: 3 
Saving Throw: None 
The ability to sense magic is much like the sense evil psi¡
power. The psychic can feel magic energy, tell whether it is near 
(within 20 feet/6. 1  m) or far (up to 120 feet/36 m away) and fol¡
low the emanations to pinpoint their source as a particular place, 
room, person or object. Note: Invisible, magical supernatural 
creatures or objects can only be traced to a general area, like a 
specific room or comer. The psychic will also be able to sense 
whether or not an object has magic powers, if a person or item is 
enchanted/under a magic spell (this does not include psychic 
powers), when magic is being used within the area (120 feet) 
and when a person is casting a spell (users of magic do not radi¡
ate magic energies until they call upon them). 
Sixth Sense 
Range: 90 feet/27.4 m 
Duration: Until the danger passes or happens. 
I.S.P.: 2 
Saving Throw: None 
The sixth sense is a power that gives the psychic a precogni¡
tive flash of imminent danger to himself or somebody near him 
(within 90 feet/27.4 m). The character will not know what the 
danger is or where it will come from, nor who it will be directed 
at when in a group. All he will know is that something life 
threatening will happen within the next 60 seconds (4 melees)! 
The sixth sense is triggered automatically, without the consent 
of the psychic, whenever his life is in great peril or the life of 
somebody he greatly cares about (friend, loved one, etc.). The 
sixth sense is only triggered by an unexpected, life threatening 
event which is already set into motion and will happen any sec¡
ond. The power can not be called upon at will to sense for traps 
or ambush. Instead, it works like an automatic reflex. If the char¡
acter has used all his I.S.P. the sixth sense is temporarily ren¡
dered inoperative. 
Bonuses: 
The sudden flash of insight provides the following bonuses. 
All bonuses apply only to the initial melee when the attack oc¡
curs. 
+6 on initiative roll 
+2 to parry 
+3 to dodge 
The character can not be surprised by a sneak attack from be¡
hind. 
Speed Reading 
Range: Self 
Duration: 3 minutes per level of experience. 
IoSoPo: 2 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 78 idx 77 =====
This is the ability to read and comprehend the written word 
extremely quickly. Speed of reading is 30 pages per minute/4 
melees. The psychic will retain the information as he would nor¡
mally. Highly technical texts will reduce the speed reading by 
half ( 1 5  pages per minute) and may require two readings. 
Suggestion (Hypnosis) 
Range: 12 feet/3.6 m, with eye contact. 
Duration: Varies with each circumstance and subject; rarely 
more than a few hours maximum. 
I.S.P.: 2 per idea or attempt to implant an idea. 
Saving Throw: Standard 
The power of suggestion is a psychically boosted form of 
simple hypnosis. The power is limited to relaxing/calming some¡
body down, putting a person or animal in a light sleep, helping a 
person to relax and focus on a particular thought (good for help¡
ing someone to remember things) and implanting subtle ideas. 
The implanting or "suggestion" of an idea must be subtly 
worked into a comment. The suggestion must be kept simple and 
clear, such as "You know you can trust me" or "You feel like 
you have a fever. Yes, you do have a fever. You're burning up 
(with fever). You should lie down." or "You don't want to go 
there." The power of suggestion can also be used to make the 
victim imagine sounds and images. "Did you hear that? Listen! 
Footsteps! You hear the footsteps, yes, you do!" Or, "At mid¡
night the specter appears. Everybody who is ever present sees 
the specter at midnight." The poor individual who fails his sav¡
ing throw will, indeed, imagine he sees something at midnight. 
The power of suggestion can not make a person think he's a 
chicken, nor does it make a person the psychic's charmed, zom¡
bie slave that obeys his every command. It simply soothes or im¡
plants a notion into someone's thoughts. Sometimes that little bit 
can be an important edge. 
Note: A successful save against a suggestion means the idea 
is not implanted. The psychic may try again (at the cost of an¡
other 2 I.S.P.). 
Summon Inner Strength 
Range: Self 
Duration: 10 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4 
This psi-power enables the character to draw on his inner re¡
serves of strength to ward off pain and fatigue. Every time the 
psychic calls upon his inner strength, the following bonuses ap¡
ply: 
ò Add + 10 S.D.C. 
ò Add +2 to save vs poison or toxins. 
ò Add +5% to save vs coma/death. 
ò Fatigue is temporarily forgotten and the character can func¡
tion as if he was fully rested for the full duration of the sum¡
mon inner strength power. 
Telepathy 
Range: Read surface thoughts up to 60 feet/1 8.3 m away or two-
way telepathic communication - 140 feet/32.7 m. 
Duration: 2 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4 
77 
Saving Throw: Conditional. When a person suspects that he is 
being telepathically probed he can resist, getting the standard 
saving throw. Mind blocks will completely prevent telepathic 
probes or communications as long as the block is up. 
The power of telepathy allows the psychic to eavesdrop on 
what a person is thinking at a particular moment. This is done by 
focusing on that one person and picking up on his or her surface 
thoughts. Surface thoughts are those thoughts and musings up¡
permost in a person's mind. A deep probe into memory is not 
possible. Although the psychic can read the thoughts of several 
people, he can only do so by focusing on one person at a time. 
Simultaneous, multiple mind reading is impossible for the char¡
acter. 
Limited telepathic communication is also possible. The 
telepath can send a directed thought message to one person at a 
time. The message must be as brief and clear as possible. Like, 
"John, I need you immediately. Hurry! "  or "Stop! Don't do 
that." "Come here," "Look Out" or "Press the green button." 
However, two-way telepathic communication is not possible ex¡
cept between two telepathic psychics. 
Total Recall 
Range: Self 
Duration: Permanent 
I.S.P.: 2 
The character remembers every word he reads. Specific 
blocks of information can be recalled in perfect detail at will. 
Each block of information costs 3 I.S.P. to recall in absolute de¡
tail. If all I.S.P. have been expended the memory is a little fuzzy, 
so that exact quotes and details may be impossible to recall. Roll 
percentile: 1 -50 - remembered in full detail, word for word; 
5 1 -80 - details are forgotten, but the full essence of the ideas 
are clear; 8 1 -00 - can only recall the most basic concepts; no 
details nor strong comprehension. 
PHYSICAL PSYCHIC 
ABILITIES 
Alter Aura 
Range: Self 
Duration: One hour per each level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 2 
Saving Throw: None 
A truly unique power that many psychic investigators claim is 
impossible and does not exist. Only a handful of physical psy¡
chics can manipulate their physical energy in such a way that it 
changes their aura. The altered aura will send the wrong mes¡
sage to those who can see auras. Alterations include: 
ò General level of experience can be made to seem much lower 
(level 1 or 2) or much higher (2D4 levels higher) than it re¡
ally is. 
ò Conceal the presence of psychic powers. 
ò Conceal level of base P.P.E. (made to seem much lower). 
ò Conceal the presence of magic. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 79 idx 78 =====
Bio-Manipulation (the evil eye) 
Range: 160 feet/48.8 m 
Duration: 4-16 minutes (roIl 4D4) 
I.S.P.: 10 
Saving Throw: Standard 
The psychic is able to induce physical trauma to the nervous 
system of others by sheer force of will and psychic energy. This 
psi-power is often known as "the evil eye." 
There are seven types of bio-manipulation effects. Each af¡
fects only one person per attack and can be used in any combina¡
tion. Intended victims must be within line of vision or their exact 
location known to the psychic. Each costs 10 LS.P. to inflict. 
This psychic power enables the psychic to temporarily ma¡
nipulate specific biological functions or conditions in human and 
animal life-forms. The duration can be extended 4-1 6  (4D4) 
minutes per additional 6 LS.P. 
Blind: Temporarily knocks out the victim's optic nerves, ren¡
dering that person quite helpless. Victims are -9 to strike, parry 
and dodge. 
Deafness: Can be caused by manipulating the eardrum. Vic¡
tims cannot hear anything, and are -6 to parry or dodge attacks 
from behind. In addition, the shock of suddenly becoming deaf 
makes them -3 to strike, parry or dodge any other attacks, and 
they automatically lose the initiative on all attacks. 
Mute: Impairs the victim's vocal cords, making speech im¡
possible. Victims are likely to be shocked and panic, making 
them -2 to strike, parry and dodge for the first melee ONLY. 
Pain: By manipulating the nerve centers, the psionic can in¡
duce terrible pain, shooting throughout the body. Victims are -6 
to strike, parry, and dodge, and take one point of damage off 
their hit points (not S.D.C.) per each minute affected. 
Paralysis: Immobilizes the motor part of the brain, causing 
legs and arms to stop functioning. Victims are completely inca¡
pacitated for the duration. 
Stun: This attack disorients and confuses its victims. Victims 
forfeit one attack per melee, speed is cut by half, and are -4 to 
strike, parry and dodge. 
Tissue Manipulation: Affects the tissue's connecting nerve 
fibers which can cause a variety of effects. By irritating the 
nerve fibers a victim will suddenly feel itchy, as if suddenly 
breaking out in a severe rash. Through endothermic manipula¡
tion, the victim can be made to suddenly feel cold or hot while 
everyone around him feels fine. This is done by manipulating 
the body chemical which absorbs heat. ALL three conditions are 
more annoying or frightening than physically impairing. In each 
case the victims are - 1  to strike, parry and dodge. 
Saving Throw: Standard; if a character successfully saves 
against the attack he is not affected at all. This applies to all 
seven bio-manipulative attacks. 
78 
Death Trance 
Range: Self 
Duration: As long as the psychic senses he must feign death, up 
to a maximum of four days. 
I.S.P.: 1 ,  (It's easier for the physical psychic to control his body, 
because that's the focus of his powers). 
A state of mind over matter that slows the metabolism to such 
a degree that it creates a temporary state of suspended anima¡
tion, simulating death. Without hospital facilities, even a medi¡
cal doctor is likely to believe the character is dead ( 1-89% 
likelihood). The effects of drugs, toxins and chemicals are 
slowed to a crawl, doing damage or effect, but will take full ef¡
fect the instant the death trance is stopped (unless treatment is 
administered first). While in the death-like state, the psychic can 
not be roused or respond to any type of stimulation, including 
psychic probes. This means he is incapable of attacking or de¡
fending himself in any way until the trance is broken. 
Ectoplasm 
Range: 40 feet+5 feet per level of experience( 12.2+ 1 .5 m). 
Duration: 4 minutes (16 melees) per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: Vapor - 6 LS.P., Solid - 12 LS.P. 
This mystifying ability enables the psychic to create a slightly 
luminous, vapor-like substance that is extruded from the pores. 
Ectoplasm has two forms: an invisible vapor and a luminous, 
solid state. 
The vapor is a sort of floating, probing finger that can snuff 
out candles, open doors, knock over or pick up small objects 
(weighing under 9 ounces/255 grams), tap somebody on the 
shoulder, rustle leaves and knock on a door. The ectoplasmic va¡
por can be seen only by its creator, psychics and supernatural be¡
ings who can see the invisible, or with infrared optic systems 
(including i.r. camera lenses, i.r. gun sights, etc.). Ectoplasm, al¡
though an invisible vapor, has physical properties, which means 
it can not go through walls or other solid obstructions. Thus, a 
person walking into an ectoplasm stream may feel a slight sensa¡
tion, like walking into a spider's web or brushing against a cot¡
ton ball. Often a person will unwittingly walk into and snag the 
stream of floating ectoplasm, pulling or stretching it along with¡
out being aware of it. In such cases, the psychic must maneuver 
the snagged portion to loop around the human obstruction. The 
creator of the vapor can control the full length of the vaporous 
stream like a floating tentacle. Although the vapor can not go 
through solid objects, it can slip through keyholes, cracks under 
doors or loose seals around a window. If a breeze can blow 
through, so can ectoplasm. The only drawback is that the charac¡
ter must be able to see the ectoplasm to maneuver it. 
The solid state of ectoplasm can be a startling sight, for it is 
clearly visible to everyone. In this form the ectoplasm can be 
shaped into an extra limb, such as a hand or arm and hand, or 
tentacle or even a foot. The ectoplasmic limb appears as a white, 
slightly luminous appendage connected to a trail of ectoplasm 
stretching back to its creator like a lifeline of silly putty. The ap¡
pendage and its connecting line can hover, float, levitate and fly 
(at a speed of 1 8). The solid ectoplasmic limb has much greater 
strength; able to carry, lift or hold up to 40 Ibs/1 8 kg, but can not 
squeeze through the tiny openings that the vapor can. An open¡
ing must be at least the size of a quarter for solid ectoplasm to 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 80 idx 79 =====
fit and then the limb must be turned into a thin tentacle and re¡
fo:med on the other side of the opening. Ectoplasm can also be 
used to create a face or even a full figure, although detailed fea¡
tures are impossible. Ectoplasmically created images may ex¡
plain apparitions reported during some seances. 
Ecto-Combat: The ectoplasm vapor and solid form both 
have an automatic dodge against all attacks directed at any of its 
length. That means an attempt to hack the middle of the ecto¡
plasmic stream/connecting line will see that portion of the ecto¡
plasm suddenly swerve, loop or bend with a life of its own to 
avoid the attack. The dodge at the midsection (or anywhere else) 
does not count as an attack/action by the appendage at the other 
end. The appendage also gets an automatic dodge in addition to 
its attacks/actions per melee. A vapor or solid appendage must 
be controlled by its creator at all times (except the automatic 
dodge); thus, it has a number of attacks/actions equal to its crea¡
tor's. So, if the psychic has four attacks per melee, the ectoplasm 
appendage also has four attacks. However, each attack/action by 
the ectoplasm counts as one of the character's attacks/actions 
that melee. 
The solid ectoplasm appendage is not a great tool for combat. 
It limits the person's attacks/actions per melee and has minimal 
strength; equal to about a P.S. attribute of 4. A punch or kick 
does a mere one point of damage. Damage can be increased by 
the appendage using any type of hand-held weapon under 40 Ibs 
and less than five feet ( 1 .5 m) in length. Small modem weapons, 
such as a pistol or revolver, can be used, but are minus -10 to 
strike. The vapor can not use any weapons weighing more than 9 
ounces and can inflict no damage of its own. 
Ecto-Combat Statistics 
ò Vapor and solid get an automatic dodge against all attacks, 
including multiple or simultaneous attacks. 
ò +5 to dodge; applies to vapor and solid. 
ò + 1 to parry; applies to vapor and solid. 
ò + 1 to strike; applies to vapor and solid. 
ò Astral S.D.C. is 40 plus one hit point. Applies to vapor and 
solid. If the ectoplasm is destroyed the creator takes one hit 
point and 10 S.D.C. of physical damage. 
ò Vapor inflicts no physical damage, but can touch, tap or pick 
up and carry objects weighing 9 ounces or less. 
ò Solid ectoplasm inflicts one point of damage in combat or by 
weapon. 
ò Attacks or actions per melee are equal to its creator's. Each 
attack/action by the ectoplasm, excluding dodges, counts as 
one of the character's attacks that melee. A pair of ectoplas¡
mic limbs will divide the attack between the two equally. 
ò Sunlight or bright artificial light (250 watts) reduces the range 
to half. 
ò Maximum range possible for vapor and solid is 40 feet plus 5 
feet per level of experience ( 12.2+ 1 .5 meters per level). 
ò One full melee ( 1 5  seconds) is required to create an ecto¡
plasm vapor or solid appendage. 
ò Half a melee (7 seconds) is needed to withdraw/return ecto¡
plasm into its creator. 
79 
Electrokinesis 
Range: Varies 
Duration: Varies 
I.S.P.: Varies 
Electrokinesis is a psychic power that allows the psychic to 
exert amazing physical control over electricity. 
1. Electrical Resistance. The psychic can manipulate his 
body so to become resistant to electricity. Up to 60,000 volts 
will inflict no damage or ill effect. Currents greater than 60,000 
volts, including lightning and magic electricity, do half damage. 
Range: Self. Duration: 3 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4. 
2. Electrical Discharge: The character can cause static elec¡
tricity within a six foot ( 1 .8m) area, as well as emit an electrical 
discharge by touch. The discharge can be a little jolt or inflict up 
to ID6 damage as often as once per melee. Range: touch or 2 
foot distance. Duration: Instant. I.S.P.: 2 per each discharge. 
3. Manipulate Electrical Devices: Through focused thought, 
the psychic can enforce a limited control over electrical devices, 
such as tum off and on light switches, computers, televisions, ra¡
dios, blenders, microwave ovens, flashlights, toys (battery and 
plug types), windshield wipers, and all types of electrically oper¡
ated appliances, toys and devices. He can also manipulate the 
controls of the device, such as volume, channel selection, tuners, 
speakers, change speed, dim lights, and so on. A dozen different 
electrical functions can be manipulated each melee. This can 
mean flicking the light off and on six times (12 functions/6 off, 6 
on) or tum on the T.V., tum its volume up to the max. and tum 
on 10 other appliances (12 functions in all). Range: 45 feet+5 
feet per level of experience ( 13.7+ 1 .5 m per level). Duration: 2 
minutes per level of experience. I.S.P.: 4. Note: The character 
does not need to see the devices to manipulate them. He can feel 
their presence. 
4. Sense Electricity: The psychic can sense or feel electricity 
and pinpoint its exact location with fair expertise. Range: 45 
feet+5 feet per level of experience. Duration: 2 minutes of ex¡
treme sensitivity when he can pinpoint every source of electric¡
ity in the area. I.S.P.: 2 per every two minutes. Base Skill: 
55%+5% per each additional level of experience. A failed roll 
means only ID6xlO% of all the electrical devices/sources of 
electricity could be sensed. 
Hydrokinesis 
Range: Varies 
Duration: Varies 
I.S.P.: Varies 
This ability enables the character to use psychic energy to 
sense and influence water. 
1. Sense Chemical Impurities: The psychic can sense 
whether or not water is polluted/contains other substances. The 
exact nature of the additive or pollutant may be unknown, but he 
will know that it is not completely natural. When sensing water, 
first roll to determine: 1) Pure or Drinkable (non-hazardous/tap 
water) 70%+5% per each additional level of experience. 2) Sec¡
ond, roll for general nature of the pollutant; this identifies 
whether it is chemical/drug (not deadly, but will cause a reaction 
if drunk) or poison/toxin (deadly or harmful if swallowed). Suc¡
cess ratio in identifying the general nature of the pollutant is 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 81 idx 80 =====
35%+5% per each additional level of experience. Range: 
self/six inches. Duration: One minute (4 melees). I.S.P.: 2 per 
minute. 
2. Boil Water: The psychic can increase the temperature of 
water, raising it to boiling level within one minute (four melees). 
Up to one gallon (3.8 liters) can be affected. Once set a boiling, 
it will take the usual amount of time to cool. This power can not 
be made to boil the water or blood in a living creature. Range: 8 
feet (2.4 m)+2 feet (.6 m) per level of experience. Duration: 
One minute (4 melees). I.S.P.: 3 per gallon of water. 
3. Water Spout: An ability that enables the psychic to control 
and hurl water. The effect can be used to make water bubble (but 
not heated), shoot straight up like a geyser or a water blast hurl¡
ing across a room like a short, powerful spray from a garden 
hose. Up to one gallon of water can be manipulated and hurled 
up to a distance of 20 feet. Note: The fluid must be 75% water to 
be controlled, such as punch, hot coffee, chicken soup, tea, kool¡
aid, etc. Forget about hurling ice (frozen does not count), paint, 
gasoline or cake batter. 
Making water leap with a life of its own can be startling to 
others and can make a great distraction if handled right. Hurling 
normal water or a cool drink into somebody's face/eyes will mo¡
mentarily blind and surprise the individual, causing him/her to 
lose initiative and one attack that melee. Hurling hot or boiling 
water on the body (especially the crotch) will have the same re¡
sults. Hurling boiling water in the face is horribly painful, caus¡
ing 2D4 damage, loss of initiative, loss of all attacks for ID6 
melees and temporary blindness for 3D6 melees (-10 to strike, 
parry and dodge). Characters of a good alignment will not hurl 
boiling water in the face unless under an absolutely life and 
death circumstance. 
Hurling range: 20 feet/6. 1  m. Duration: Instant. I.S.P.: 5. 
Bonus: + 1 to strike. Making water bubble or rise up like a foun¡
tain can be maintained for up to 30 seconds (2 melees). Note: 
The psychic can influence up to one gallon of water up to 20 feet 
away, whether he can see it or only feel its presence. 
4. Sense Water: The character can sense the presence of any 
water exposed to the open air automatically, at no cost of I.S.P. 
Range: 20 feet/6. 1m. Duration: Permanent. I.S.P.: None. Note: 
Underground rivers, airtight containers, etc., can not be sensed. 
Impervious to Cold 
Range: Self 
Duration: 20 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 2 
A mind over matter discipline which enables the character to 
suffer absolutely no ill effects or discomfort from exposure to 
even extreme freezing conditions. 
Impervious to Fire/Heat 
Range: Self 
Duration: 3 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4 
Another mind over matter discipline enabling the psychic to 
endure intense heat, fire, boiling water, hot coals, and so on 
without suffering pain, damage or scarring. Magic fires inflict 
half damage. 
80 
Impervious to Poison/Toxin 
Range: Self 
Duration: 2 minutes (8 melees) 
I.S.P.: 4 
The character can negate the full effects of poisons and toxic 
chemicals which he has ingested (eaten or drank) or introduced 
into the bloodstream, as long as he/she has advance knowledge 
of its deadly properties. A poison, toxin, or drug which has been 
unknowingly inflicted (and starting to take effect) can be ne¡
gated too, but will do half damage or effect before it can be 
completely negated. Bonuses: Identify poisons - 30%+4% per 
level of experience; +2 to save vs poisons and drugs. 
Levitation 
Range: Up to 60 feet/1 8.3 m away. 
Duration: 2 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: Small - 2, medium - 6, large - 6 per every 10 pounds 
of weight. 
Saving Throw: None 
Levitation is a limited form of telekinesis that can raise an ob¡
ject (or even a person) straight up into the air and suspend it 
there (hover). Small objects weighing two pounds (0.9 kg) or 
less are the easiest to levitate. Maximum height is 8 feet (2.4 m) 
plus one foot (0.3 m) per each level of experience. Medium size 
objects weighing 3 to 20 pounds ( 1 .4 to 9. 1 kg) are more diffi¡
cult, requiring greater concentration. Maximum height is 6 feet 
( 1 .8 m) plus one foot (0.3 m) per level of experience. Large ob¡
jects or people weighing over 20 lbs cost 6 I.S.P. plus I I.S.P. for 
every 10 lbs beyond 20. Thus, a 1 25lb weight (56.7 kg) would 
require 17 I.S.P. to raise it into the air. Maximum height is 4 feet 
( 1 .2 m) plus one foot (0.3 m) per level of experience. 
Meditation 
Range: Self 
Duration: Varies with the person's needs. 
I.S.P.: None 
Meditation is the only ability that can be done at any time and 
costs no I.S.P. to perform. Meditation is not so much a psychic 
power as it is a mental discipline. The character meditates by 
dwelling upon a single notion, mental object, or mantra (a repeti¡
tious chant or humming), to achieve a deep relaxation, focus, or 
to gain insight and harmony into one's inner self, nature and the 
universe. Meditation is often required to use psychic and magic 
powers. 
Mind Block 
Range: Self 
Duration: 10 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4 (per each duration period) 
This is the ability to completely close or block oneself from 
all psychic/mental emanations. When intentionally closed to su¡
pernatural or psychic forces, the character can not sense any¡
thing, can not use psychic abilities, nor be influenced by others. 
A mind block will prevent penetration of telepathy, empathy, 
hypnotic suggestion, and empathic transfer. It can be an invalu¡
able protective mask when dealing with malevolent psychic 
forces. Adds a bonus of + 1 to save vs all psychic and mental at¡
tacks. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 82 idx 81 =====
81 
Pyrokinesis 
Range: Varies 
Duration: Varies 
I.S.P.: Varies 
Pyrokinesis is a psychic power that gives a character the 
power to manipulate fire. 
1. Fire Resistant: The psychic can endure great heat and fire 
with minimal ill effect. Damage is reduced by half. Magic fires 
do full damage. Range: Self. Duration: 5 minutes per level of 
experience. I.S.P.: 2. 
2. Spontaneous Combustion: The ability to create a spark 
that will ignite combustible material, such as paper, old rags, dry 
grass, gasoline, etc. Note: Human hair should not be considered 
a combustible material. This is a slow fire, starting with a tiny 
spark and grows. Initially, it is not a roaring blaze. Range: Can 
be ignited up to 30 feet away (9. 1 m). Duration: Instant; fire 
will last and spread until it is put out or there is nothing to bum. 
I.S.P.: 2. 
3. Fuel Flame: The character can feed the fire with psychic 
energy, doubling it in size. Affects a 10 feet (3 m) area. Range: 
Up to 30 feet+5 feet for each additional level of experience. Du¡
ration: Instant. I.S.P.: 4. 
4. Extinguish Flames: The power to instantly put out an area 
of fire. Affects a 1 5ft ( 1 .5 m) area of fire. Range: Up to 30 
feet+5 feet per each additional level of experience. Duration: 
Permanent until set on fire again. I.S.P.: 4. 
5. Create Flame: The incredible ability to create fire out of 
thin air. Can be an 8 feet pillar of fire affecting a 4ft ( 1 .2 m) area 
or a 6 foot wall of fire stretching six feet long ( 1 .8 m) plus one 
foot per each additional level of experience. Damage: 4D6 from 
the pillar, 6D6 from the wall, plus both have a 72% likelihood of 
setting any combustibles they touch ablaze (including cloth, 
rugs, curtains, furniture, etc.). Range: Cast up to 30 feet+2 feet 
per additional level of experience. Duration: 2 minutes per level 
of experience; longer if it sets other things on fire. I.S.P.: 20. 
Another fire creation ability is the hurling of afire ball. Dam¡
age: 6D6, Range: 30 feet+2 feet per each additional level of ex¡
perience. Duration: Instant. Bonus: +2 to strike. I.S.P.: 25. 
6. Sense Fire: The psychic can sense or feel the presence of 
fire and pinpoint its exact location. Range: 100 feet+5 feet per 
level of experience. Duration: 2 minutes of extreme sensitivity 
when he/she can pinpoint the exact location of every fire in the 
area. Base Skill: 90% success ratio. A failed roll means only 
2D4x1O% of the fires can be located by sensing. I.S.P.: 2 per 
every 2 minutes. 
Resist Fatigue 
Range: Self 
Duration: I hour+20 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4 
A mind over matter discipline which enables the character to 
engage in physical activity without suffering from exhaustion. 
Although fatigue is temporarily suspended, the psychic will feel 
extremely tired and may even collapse when the psi-power's 
time limit lapses. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 83 idx 82 =====
Resist Hunger 
Range: Self 
Duration: 6 hours 
I.S.P.: 2 
Another mind over matter discipline that subdues any feeling 
of hunger, allowing the character to function at full effectiveness 
without nourishment. It is important to point out that while the 
psi-power maintains full operations, the body is still suffering 
from malnutrition and starvation. Loses 3 lbs of weight per day. 
Note: A psychic can survive up to 60 days, functioning as nor¡
mal, without any food by continually using resist hunger. On day 
6 1  the character will lapse into a coma. Under this extreme con¡
dition, 60 days of food deprivation while still fully active physi¡
cally, the character is -20% to save vs coma/death. 
Resist Thirst 
Range: Self 
Duration: 6 hours 
I.S.P.: 6 
This ability is identical to the resist hunger psi-power except 
it applies to the consumption of water. It does not negate the 
long-range damage from dehydration. 
Speed Reading 
Range: Self 
Duration: 3 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 2 
This is the ability to read and comprehend the written word 
extremely quickly. Speed of reading is 30 pages per minute/4 
melees. The psychic will retain the information as he would nor¡
mally. Highly technical texts will reduce the speed reading by 
half ( 1 5  pages per minute) and may require two readings. 
Summon Inner Strength 
Range: Self 
Duration: 10 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: 4 
This psi-power enables the character to draw on his inner re¡
serves of strength to ward off pain and fatigue. Every time the 
psychic calls upon his inner strength, the following bonuses ap¡
ply: 
ò Add + 10 S.D.C. 
ò Add +2 to save vs poison or toxins. 
ò Add +5% to save vs coma/death. 
ò Fatigue is temporarily forgotten and the character can func¡
tion as if he was fully rested for the full duration of the sum¡
mon inner strength power. 
Telekinesis 
Range: Up to 60 feet ( 1 8.3 m) away. 
Duration: 2 minutes per level of experience. 
I.S.P.: Small - 3, medium - 8, large (over 20 lbs) - 8+ 1 per 
every 10 lbs of weight. 
Telekinesis is the ability to move objects without any other 
means than directed psychic energy. The character can make an 
object hop, fall, roll, rise into the air, suspend it there (hover) or 
make it fly across the room. 
82 
In order to move an object by telekinesis, the item must be 
clearly visible, within the psychic's range (60 feet/18.3 m) and 
the point of focus. As usual, the psychic must concentrate on 
what he is doing; thus, each telekinetic feat counts as one of the 
character's physical attacks. The total number of telekinetic at¡
tacks is equal to the character's number of physical attacks per 
melee; usually 3 or 4. One can attack with telekinesis by hurling 
an object as if thrown or causing it to buzz about a room, swing¡
ing and hitting like a club controlled by an invisible hand. Sev¡
eral objects can be telekinetically thrown around within the same 
melee round, but not simultaneously. The psychic can only con¡
centrate on one item at a time. For Example: A physical psy¡
chic with four, normal, hand to hand attacks per melee can 
perform four attacks with telekinesis. First, he makes a flower 
vase fly from the table, aiming it at his opponent's head. Second, 
he makes the lamp hurl at the guard at the door. Third, the table 
is suddenly flipped up on end and, fourth, the doorknob is turned 
and the door flung open. Four attacks or actions using telekine¡
sis. 
As we can see in the example, telekinesis can be used to do 
more than make objects fly around. The telekinetic power can be 
used to open doors, flick switches, press buttons, tum knobs and 
dials, open windows, make a rocking chair rock and so on. The 
range of possibilities is extensive when you stop and think about 
it. Remember, each action counts as one of the character's physi¡
cal actions/attacks per melee. 
It is easiest to move or hurl small objects weighing two 
pounds (0.9 kg or less). Maximum height or distance is 60 feet 
( 1 8.3 m). Medium size objects weighing 3 to 20 pounds ( 1 .4 to 
9. 1 kg) are more difficult to manipulate. Maximum height or dis¡
tance is reduced by half - 30 feet (9. 1 m). Large or heavy ob¡
jects weighing over 20 lbs are the most difficult to maneuver, 
reducing maximum height and distance to 15 feet (4.6 m). I.S.P. 
cost for large, heavy objects is 8 I.S.P. for the first 20lbs (9. 1 kg) 
plus one I.S.P. for each additional 1Olbs (4.5kg) of weight. This 
means it would cost 19 I.S.P. to move a 1 25lb (56.7kg) weight 
(8 I.S.P. for the first 20lbs+ 1 1  I.S.P. for the remaining 105lbs). 
Remember, the height and distance of effect is limited to 15 feet 
(4.6m) for such a heavy item. 
Combat Bonuses: 
ò +3 to strike with telekinesis; physical/skill bonuses to strike 
do not apply when telekinesis is used. 
ò +4 to parry with telekinesis by using a controlled object to 
parry or sheer telekinetic force to block an attack. Counts as a 
medium, heavy object; costs 8 I.S.P. 
ò 
Damage from Hurled Objects: 
Small: 6 ounces to 1 pound - ID4 
Small: 1 to 2 lbs - ID6 
Medium: 3 to 4 lbs - 2D4 
Medium: 5 to 10 lbs - 3D4 
Medium: 10 to 24lbs - 3D6 
Large: 26 to 40 lbs - 4D6 
Add ID6 for each additional 20 lbs of weight. 
Note: Telekinesis is not a force field, thus, while it can be 
used to parry/block a punch, kick, club, knife or even sword, it 
can not stop bullets, arrows, gas, flying tackles, and similar at¡
tacks. Furthermore, a failed roll to telekinetically parry means 
the psychic did not parry and is struck by his opponent. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

===== PRINTED PAGE 83 idx 83 =====
Total Recall 
Range: Self 
Duration: Permanent 
I.S.P.: 2 
The character remembers every word he reads. Specific 
blocks of information can be recalled in perfect detail at will. 
Each block of information costs 3 I.S.P. to recall in absolute de¡
tail. If all I.S.P. have been expended, the memory is a little fuzzy 
so that exact quotes and details may be impossible to recall. Roll 
percentile: 1 -50 remembered in full detail, word for word; 5 1 -80 
details are forgotten, but the full essence of the ideas are clear; 
8 1 -00 can only recall the most basic concepts no details nor 
strong comprehension. 
PSYCHIC HEALER 
ABILITIES 
Deaden Pain 
Range: Immediate proximity, touch or within 3 feet (0.9 m). 
Duration: One hour per level of experience. 
Length of Trance: Two minutes (8 melee rounds). 
I.S.P.: 4 
The ability to deaden pain can be used as a painkiller which 
temporarily negates existing pain or as an anesthetic to be used 
for surgery. 
Exorcism 
Range: Immediate area, touch or within 8 feet (2.4 m). 
Duration: Instant, if successful. 
Length of Trance: 30 minutes of preparation and 6D6 minutes 
with the possessed person or animal. Note: can only exorcise 
the living. 
I.S.P.: 10 
The healer can perform a rite of exorcism that uses psychic 
energy to expel the loathsome being from its mortal, host body. 
A completely successful exorcism will free the victim of the su¡
pernatural force that controls him and send it back to it's own 
non-earthly world. A partially successful exorcism will drive the 
evil force out of the possessed person or animal, but does not 
send the damnable thing back to it's own dimension. Thus, it can 
try to possess the healer or flee to wander the Earth in search of 
new victims. An exorcism can only be used on living persons or 
animals whose bodies are inhabited by a supernatural entity or 
creature. Also see possession. 
Roll to determine success for an exorcism at the end of the 
time period. First, roll to see if the being has been expelled from 
its victim's body. Success ratio: 28%+7% per each additional 
level of experience. Second, roll to see if the thing is forced 
back into its own dimension. Success Ratio: 2 1  %+7% per each 
additional level of experience. A failed roll means the creature 
can remain in our dimension, but it must leave the area and can 
not possess the same individual for at least six months. Note: 
The chance of a successful exorcism on a nega-psychic is re¡
duced by half, as is the success ratio for sending the being back 
to its own dimension. The same is true of some of the more pow¡
erful supernatural beings. 
83 
During the exorcism, the possessing force can use whatever 
powers it may have, as well as physical attacks or any special 
psychic abilities of its host body. Fortunately, the rite of exor¡
cism weakens the creature, reducing its number of attacks per 
melee by half. It is wise to always have one or more assistants to 
help defend against the being's attacks and actions. Sedating the 
physical host body will immobilize it, but will not prevent psy¡
chic attacks or the creature's use of its natural powers. Too many 
assistants or spectators can be a liability, for the creature may at¡
tempt to flee by possessing one of them. An exorcism can be at¡
tempted on the same individual as often as the healer desires. 
Healing Touch 
Range: Touch. 
Duration: Instant, with lasting effects. 
Length of Trance: Two minutes (8 melee rounds). 
I.S.P.: 6 
The healing touch is a remarkable healing ability that can in¡
stantly heal cuts, bums, bruises and similar physical wounds. 
The touch restores ID8 hit points or 2D6 S.D.C. The healing 
touch can only be used on other living creatures, never on him¡
self. 
Impervious to Cold 
Range: Self 
Duration: 20 minutes per level of experience. 
Length of Trance: ID4 melees for preparatory meditation. 
I.S.P.: 2 
A mind over matter discipline which enables the character to 
suffer absolutely no ill effects or discomfort from exposure to 
even extreme freezing conditions. 
Impervious to Fire 
Range: Self 
Duration: 3 minutes per level of experience. 
Length of Trance: 2D4 melees for preparatory meditation. 
I.S.P.: 4 
Another mind over matter discipline enabling the psychic to 
endure intense heat, fire, boiling water, hot coals, and so on, 
without suffering pain, damage or scarring. Magic fires inflict 
half damage. 
Increased Healing 
Range: Touch or within 3 feet (0.9 m). 
Duration: 2D4 days. 
Length of Trance: ID6 hours. 
I.S.P.: 10 
The healer is able to stimulate another person's healing ener¡
gies, dramatically increasing one's recuperative powers. Hit 
points and S.D.C. recovery are double the normal professional 
treatment rate. 
Induce Pain 
Range: Touch or within 6 feet ( 1 .8 m). 
Duration: As long as the trance is maintained. 
Length of Trance: One melee/IS seconds is needed to prepare, 
before pain can be inflicted. The length of the pain inducing 
trance is completely up to the psychic. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)

