Unnatural Limbs Table
01-10% Prehensile Tail: The Nightbane has a prehensile tail, 
which can be used to grasp and carry things or help climb. The 
tail is very strong, able to support the character’s full body weight 
when suspended above the ground. However, it can only carry 
the equivalent of one third of the character’s body weight (typically about 60 lbs\27 kg). Bonuses: +20% to Acrobatics (balance) and Climbing when the tail is used, +1 attack per melee and 
+1 to Horror Factor.
11-20% Spiked Prehensile Tail: Same as above, except that 
the tail ends in a spike, blade, stinger or club with 2D4 small 
spikes at the end. Strikes with the tail inflict 2D6 damage.
21-30% Tentacles: The character has two tentacles in addition to his arms! These tentacles are very difficult to conceal 
(need at least a trench coat, cape or cloak). The limbs can grab 
and carry objects, but are unable to use firearms or other tools 
requiring fingers. A pair of tentacle strikes do 1D6 in addition to 
normal hand to hand damage, and provide one additional attack/
action per melee round. Bonus: +1D4 to Horror Factor.
31-40% Long, Sensitive Fingers: The fingers on the hands 
are three times longer than normal. Bonuses: Fingers are delicate 
and sensitive, providing a bonus of +5% to the following skills or 
skill categories: Medical (all), Demolitions (all), Electronics (all), 
Climbing, Computers (all), Forgery, Palming, Pick Locks, Pick 
Pockets, and Safecracking.
41-50% 2D4 Pairs of Tiny Arms and Hands: The character has several tiny arms about one third the size of a normal arm, usually located along the length of his forearm(s) or 
clustered at the shoulder(s). Each has a P.S. of only 1D6 and 
inflicts only one point of damage in combat (and then only if 
a foe gets close enough). However, they can grab and carry 
small and/or light objects or wield razor blades, small knives, 
or ice picks (1D4 damage each). Bonus: +1D4 to Horror Factor.
51-65% Four Arms: The Nightbane has an extra pair of arms 
and hands. Bonuses: +1 attack per melee round, the arms and 
hands are ambidextrous and double-jointed, and +1D4 to Horror 
Factor.
66-80% Pseudopods: At will, the Nightbane can extend 
1D4+1 tentacle-like limbs from his flesh, much like an amoeba 
can extend pseudopods. The process of extending these limbs 
is utterly horrible to a human being, because these fleshy limbs 
break through the skin as if an unwholesome parasites were 
climbing out of the character’s body! Treat the pseudopods as 
tentacles (see above). Bonuses: +1 attack pe melee for each pair, 
each limb has 22 S.D.C., and +1D4+2 to Horror Factor whenever 
the pseudopods are extended.
81-90% Articulated Spikes: The character has four spikes or 
spines that resembles the spine or legs of an insect. Each is about 
the size of a survival knife, but can extend to twice that length in 
an instant. They are distributed along the side of each forearm 
(two on each arm) or on the chest, or sides of the body. These 
slim, chitinous limbs end in sharp points, and can move independent of each like tiny, stiff arms and even rotate 360 degrees. 
They are used to parry an enemy’s hand to hand attacks (+2 to 
parry) and to stab or slash opponents who come within arm’s 
length. Bonuses: The four spikes provide +1 attack per melee 
round, inflict 2D6 damage, but they cannot grab or manipulate 
objects, and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
91-00% Antennae: A pair of antennae are located on the 
character’s head. Each can move like an arm, independent of 
each other and can dodge attacks (+3 to dodge; each has 15 
S.D.C., and regenerate within 72 hours). They can look like any 
variety of insect or crustacean antennae and are typically, thin, 
whip-like limbs that extend 1D4 feet (0.3-1.2 m) in length. Bonuses: These sensitive “feelers” enable the Nightbane to move 
around in total darkness, can measure and detect changes in the 
air temperature and humidity (automatic), wind movement and 
direction (automatic), detect and identify common odors (66% 
proficiency), track by smell (50%), and sense an approaching 
rainstorm (70%; storm will arrive within 2D6x10 minutes), and 
+1 to Horror Factor.