Biomechanical Table II -----
Players of biomechanical characters can roll on the original 
table as presented in the Nightbane RPG, page 105, or may roll 
on this one, or make selections from both. 
01-15% Screen Face: The head of the Nightbane is shaped 
normally, but the face is a television or monitor screen instead of 
normal facial features. The screen's images are controlled by the 
Nightbane; some flash written messages instead of talking, oth­
ers have an animated or computer generated, cartoon image of a 
normal face, some show test patterns and others, electronic 
snow. The images may be changed to reflect the character's 
moods, or at random. Horror Factor: + I D4. 
16-30% Speakers: Sound speakers are built into the head or 
body of the Nightbane. The actual location is determined by the 
player; some Nightbanes have speakers instead of mouths, eyes, 
or ears, while others have them built into their torsos. The Night­
bane can produce frightening human, animal and/or electronic 
sounds (but not specific voices). These sounds add to the horror 
factor of the Nightbane and can be used to intimate. +3 to horror 
factor, + 1 D4 to M.A. A frightened or intimidated victim (failed 
to save vs horror factor or intimidation factor) is -2 on initiative 
and -5% on all skill performance. Range for the sound transmis­
sion is roughly 100 feet (30.5 m). 
31-45 % Tool Hands: Any type of hand-held tool, from 
hedge clippers and scissors to screwdrivers, drills and pliers, re­
places one or both hands of the character. If both hands are re-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
placed with tools, any skill requiring delicate finger control or an 
opposable thumb is at -30%. The tools do 3D6 damage in addi­
tion to hand to hand combat, are + 1 to parry, and add + 1 D4 to 
horror factor. 
46-60% Monitor Eyes: The eyes of the character are re­
placed by two digital monitors or camera-like lenses. Some 
monitors act like a hospital's life sign monitors, with a line that 
jumps at every heartbeat, some display waves that jump in reac­
tion to the character's voice or emotions, while others project 
psychedelic light shows, or simply flash green or violet light. 
The camera lens eyes raise the character's Nightvision to 2000 
feet (610 m). Both types of eyes adds +2 to horror factor. 
61-75 % Chain saw Arms: One or both of the arms of the 
Nightbane have been replaced by a chain saw. This lethal 
weapon does 4D6 S.D.C. in addition to normal hand to hand 
damage and is + 1 to parry. Nothing can be held by the chain saw 
arm(s) and characters with two such arms will be at a great dis­
advantage in performing skills (-70%). Add +lD4 to horror fac­
tor! 
76-90 % Computer Creature: A home computer is built into 
the body of the Nightbane. The screen may be in the head, face, 
eyes, or built into the chest or belly. The keyboard is often 
grown onto a forearm, and connected by a cable(s) to the body, 
and the processor is usually in the upper or lower torso or hip. 
The computer will actually work, and will read information from 
disks and other computers! Retractable interface cables are in­
cluded. The Nightbane is at + 15% on all computer operations 
and programming, and +5% for computer hacking rolls when he 
uses his "personal" computer. Add +2 to horror factor. 
91-00% Projectile Limbs: The hand, forearm or entire arm 
or arms of the character can be "fired" at a target. The hands or 
limbs act like flying fists, returning to the character after they 
132 
strike. These projectile limbs have a range of 300 feet (9 1 .4 m) 
and are +2 to strike. They inflict normal punch damage for the 
character, plus any claws or weapon damage that may be part of 
the hands. 