Biomechanical Table 
Many occultists point to the existence of biomechanical 
Nightbane as proof that the Morphus is some sort of physical 
manifestation that reflects the Nightbane's personality. How 
else could these unnatural and artificial looking components be 
part of the creature? Even before complex machines appeared, 
the earlier biomechanical Morphi had limbs shaped like swords, 
metal gauntlets, and other weapons and gizmos. In the times of 
the Industrial Revolution, some Nightbane who were reported to 
have steam-powered, piston-driven limbs and riveted-metal 
skins, appeared for the first time. In the last years of the 20th 
Century, "cyborgs" became fairly common. Biomechanicals 
seem to embody the fascination and love or abhorrence and fear 
the character has toward machines or science. 
Despite their artificial appearance, biomechanical charac­
teristics are as much a part of the Nightbane's living body as 
"natural" skin and bones. The biomechanical components do not 
have any of the limitations of true cybernetic prosthetics, and 
heal at the same rate as the Nightbane does. 
01-10% Armorgraft: Pieces of archaic body annor (helmets, 
breastplates, gauntlets, chain mail, segmented mail) are fused 
with the Nightbane's skin. Add I D6x1 O  to S.D.C. and 2 to Hor­
ror Factor. 
11-20% Plastic: Parts or all of the character's skin have been 
replaced with plastic or rubber (player can pick the colors and 
texture). Add 5D6 to S.D.C. and 1 point to Horror Factor, unless, 
the skin coverings are made up of transparent plastic, revealing 
internal organs, in which case H.F. is ID6. 
21-25 % :  Rocket Jets: The Nightbane has metallic exhaust 
tubes and small jet engines growing out of his back! They pro­
vide limited flight: 80 mph ( 1 28 km), maximum altitude 5,000 
feet ( 1 524 m) and hover capabilities. There is actually a roaring 
sound of engines when the jets are used, so prowl is impossible 
even when hovering. Add 4D6 to S.D.C. and I point to Horror 
Factor. 
105 
26-30% Metal Teeth and Talons: The Nightbane has metal 
fangs and talons instead of normal teeth and fingernails (may be 
retractable). The metal teeth inflict 3D6 points of damage with a 
bite, and the claws add ID6 S.D.C. to hand to hand damage. 
Add 2 to Horror Factor. 
31-40% Metal Endoskeleton: Metallic bones are mixed with 
living flesh in grotesque ways. There is always a place where the 
metal seems to rip out of the skin, usually on the hands, anns, 
neck, cheeks and legs. Add ID6 to H.P., +2 to P.S., +2 to P.E., 
and +2D4xl O  to S.D.C. 
41-50% Mechanical Limbs: The anns and legs of the Night­
bane are obviously mechanical. They may be piston-driven, 
huge mechanisms of iron and bronze, or microchip covered or 
chrome-plated creations of the "cyberpunk" mythology. These 
limbs do not bleed when struck, instead a sort of oil or grease 
may ooze out or wires, metal components and other artificial 
"guts" are revealed. Add +4 to P.S., +ID4xlO to S.D.C. and (if 
the legs are also mechanical) +4D6 to Speed. Horror Factor is 
increased by ID4. 
51-60 % Weapon Hand: One or both of the Nightbane's 
hands can metamorphosize, at will, into a hand to hand weapon 
such as a knife, a sword, battle axe, trident, sickle, etc. The 
weapon does normal damage for that particular weapon type, in 
addition to P.S. damage bonuses, and there is no risk of it break­
ing (see Supernatural Strength Damage). In addition, the char­
acter is + I to strike and parry with his weapon limb and add 2 to 
Horror Factor. 
61-70% Metal Exoskeleton: The character is covered in me­
chanical annor that can look hard and bulky with rivets and 
seams, or smooth and chrome-like - Victorian-era Nightbane 
often walked the world with riveted iron instead of skin. Modern 
characters tend to "favor" metallic bands or a combination of 
metal plates and bands, and resemble robots or suits of power ar­
mor. Add 3D6x1O to S.D.C., +2 to P.S., and + 1  to P.E. Add ID4 
to Horror Factor. 
71-80% Metal Head & Camera Eyes: The character's head 
looks like a robot or cyborg and instead of eyes, he has two cam­
era lenses protruding from the eye sockets. These artificial eyes 
raise the character's Nightvision range to 2000 feet (610 m) and 
provides him with telescopic sight like a pair of high-powered 
binoculars, and polarized filters. Even more amazing, the Night­
bane can turn his eyes into movie projectors, and show moving 
pictures of anything he remembers (the depiction will be literally 
as seen by his eyes and may reflect personal prejudices, bias, 
and emotions)! These two-dimensional projections have no 
sound, but are otherwise picture-perfect. Add ID4 to Horror 
Factor. 
81-90% Wheels or Treads: Instead of legs, the Nightbane is 
a two-wheeled man-machine hybrid. The upper body looks hu­
man or half human and half cyborg, while the lower body is a 
machine vehicle. The vehicle part of the body can look like a 
motorcycle, four-wheeled vehicle or miniature tank with treads. 
More than one motorcycle enthusiast has found himself grafted 
to a Harley Davidson, and gun-bunnies or military aficionados to 
the chasis of a tank! Add 2D4x1O to Speed, +3 to P.S., +2 to 
P.E., and 3D6x1O to S.D.C. The Nightbane may find it diffi­
cult to operate indoors or in confined spaces. Add ID4 to Horror 
Factor. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
91-00% Gun Limbs: The Nightbane has one or more guns 
built into his body! The grotesque result is usually a weapon bar­
rel protruding from flesh and muscle. These guns will have nor­
mal gun stats; the biggest gun available would be a rifle type 
doing 6D6 S.D.C. damage. Note: This advantage actually re­
quires a permanent P.P.E. sacrifice, equal to I P.P.E. per die of 
damage, and 2 P.P.E. if the gun is an automatic weapon (capable 
of firing bursts). Additionally, the character has to find bullets 
for the gun! A maximum of 100 bullets can be "stored" inside 
the body (to do this, the Nightbane literally has to shove the bul­
lets into his flesh, inflicting I D6 S.D.C. to himself per 10 bul­
lets). Add I D4 to Horror Factor. 
Nightbane® 
Talents 
Talents are supernatural powers, somewhat similar to magic 
spells, instinctively known to Nightbane ; they cannot be taught 
or learned. Talents typically appear for the first time at the first 
Becoming. Later on, additional Talents are acquired when the 
Nightbane 
focuses his mind intensely and wishes for them! 
Often, a Nightbane sees a Talent being used by someone else 
and will decide to try to develop it for himself. This is a mystical 
process in which the Nightbane uses his force of will and link: 
to the supernatural to learn a new way to reshape his body's 
mystic energies or view of reality. The process is arduous and 
painful, often requiring a sacrifice of a portion of the Night­
bane 's life force! 
106 
There are two types of Talents. "Common" Talents are avail­
able to all Nightbane and are the most widely found among 
these supernatural creatures. Then there are "Elite" Talents, 
powers that are restricted to a few types of Nightbane . For the 
most part, Elite Talents are intimately related to the Night­
bane 's Morphus and his basic nature. Animal-like Nightbane 
for instance, often evidence powers to control and manipulate 
animals, while Biomechanical-oriented ones have powerful af­
finities toward machines. 
P.P.E. and Talents 
P.P.E. is short for Potential Psychic Energy, an invisible force 
that exists in every living being (see the Magic Section for more 
information on P.P.E.). Nightbane have an immense reservoir of 
P.P.E., and they use this energy to power their Talents. P.P.E. is 
used by Nightbane in two ways: 1. The Becoming, in which 
P.P.E. is permanently expended in the process of transforming 
the Nightbane. 2. To "fuel" the use of Talents, or by being 
"burned off' to permanently give the Nightbane the ability to 
use a new Talent. 
Acquiring Talents 
At first level, the Nightbane gains one Talent for free and 
one additional free ability at levels four, seven, ten and twelve. 
Free means it does not cost the character any of his P.P.E. base 
to acquire the Talent. 
At level one and upon reaching each subsequent new level of 
experience, the Nightbane can purchase two additional Talents, 
but, each purchase will cost the character a permanent expendi­
ture of P.P.E.! There is no limit as to how many Talents can be 
purchased. However, before players decide to go hog-wild and 
spend all their character's P.P.E. on magic Talents, they should 
keep in mind that using those powers also requires a temporary 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
P.P.E. expenditure, similar to casting a spell. A Nightbane with 
seven Talents and only 10 to 20 P.P.E. will not be able to make 
much use of them, while a character with only three Talents and 
100 P.P.E. will have a great deal of power and flexibility. 
Some Talents require a degree of control and sophistication 
unreachable by younger and less experienced Nightbane . 
These powers are not available at the lower levels of experience, 
and must be acquired later in the course of a campaign. Those 
powers have their level requirements noted in the Limitations 
entry. 
Note: Each Talent description will indicate the permanent 
P.P.E. cost to acquire a Talent, as well as the cost to use it again, 
like casting a magic spell. Remember, unlike a magic spell or 
ritual, Talents are an innate ability and cannot be taught or 
leamed, they must be desired. Once a Talent is acquired, it is ac­
quired for life and cannot be traded or exchanged for a different 
one; another reason to make selections carefully and with 
thought. 
Using Talents 
Using Talents requires a short period of concentration (usually 
a few seconds, equivalent to one melee attack/action), followed 
by the expenditure of P.P.E. This is why a character needs to 
keep a healthy reserve of psychic energy. 
Some powers work only once and must be reactivated every 
time they need to be used. Others last for a period of time (from 
minutes to hours); at the end of that period, more P.P.E. must be 
spent to maintain the Talent's effect or it ends. 
Different Nightbane manifest the same Talents in different 
ways, depending on their inherent nature. The manifestation of 
the Talent is left to the player to depict. For example, the Dark­
whip, a tendril of black energy, might appear as a tentacle com­
ing from an animalistic Nightbane; an arc of crackling black 
energy in the hands of a biomechanical; or even a black tongue 
coming from the mouth of a more inhuman-looking character. 
At the Game Master's discretion, the way the Talents manifest 
may temporarily increase the Nightbane's Horror Factor by a 
point or two, or even have their own Horror Factor. 
Many Talents cannot be combined. Generally speaking, any 
Talent that transforms or alters the character prevents the charac­
ter from using any other Talents for the duration of the power. 
Protective Talents can typically be used in conjunction with oth­
ers, except where otherwise indicated. Other limitations may ap­
ply. For instance, the vast majority of Talents can only be used 
in the Morphus form. 
Some abilities can be resisted by the target/victim. Typically, 
a save versus magic is required to successfully resist a Night­
bane Talent. 
Creating New Talents 
Nightbane Talents are said to be limited only by the imagina­
tion and willpower of each person. The list below is far from ex­
haustive and new Talents will appear in future Nightbane 
sourcebooks. At the Game Master's discretion, he or his players 
may create new powers or use abilities found in other Palladium 
supplements like Heroes Unlimited, Rifts, Mystic China, and 
Ninjas and Superspies. The Game Master is the final arbiter as 
to what abilities are appropriate for his/her campaign. Remem­
ber, Nightbane is a dark fantasy/horror campaign, NOT a super-
107 
hero game. Powers and abilities that would unbalance or 
detract from the atmosphere of the campaign should not be al­
lowed. This will change from campaign to campaign or with 
personal taste and preferences, of course. When designing a new 
Talent, the P.P.E. expenditures (both for activation and perma­
nent) should be balanced with the ones below. Typically, a mi­
nor ability will cost 2-5 P.P.E., while the most powerful ones 
might cost as much as 20-30 P.P.E. (permanent and to activate). 
Alphabetical Nightbane Talents List 
Anti-Arcane 
Borrow Morphus 
Darksong 
Darkwhip 
Doorway 
Infectious Control 
Lightning Rider 
Mirror Search 
Mirror Sight 
Nightbringer 
Premonition 
Reshape Facade 
See Truth 
Shadow Blast 
Shadow Shield 
Shadow Slide 
Sharing the Flesh 
Shroud 
Soul Shield 
Splittin' Image 
Storm Maker 
Elite Nightbane Talents 
Bloodbath 
Deus Ex Machina (Machine Control) 
Lord/Lady of the Wild (Animal Control) 
Swarm Self 
Common 
Nightbane® Talents 
Anti-Arcane 
When activating this Talent, the Nightbane is surrounded by 
an aura of black light (easily confused with the Shadow Shield 
described below). While this aura is in effect, the Nightbane is 
utterly invulnerable to the effects of magic! Any magical spell 
that can be resisted by a save against magic will have no effect 
on the character. Spells that must be dodged, or have no saving 
throw, will work normally. The Anti-Arcane will last one minute 
(4 melees), at which time it must be reactivated. 
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available until 
the character has reached fifth level. 
Cost: 15 P.P.E. are permanently spent to acquire it and 20 are 
needed every time to activate it. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Borrow Morphus 
This rare power allows a Nightbane to assume the Morphus 
of another of his kind! The "other" Nightbane whose likeness is 
being copied suffers no ill effect other than the shock of seeing 
his double. The character gains the shape, all physical attributes, 
S.D.C. and hit points of the "borrowed" shape. He can also use 
any of the Talents possessed by the Nightbane he is imitating, 
but only abilities that the borrowing character knew the other 
possessed. Furthermore, the borrowing Nightbane cannot use his 
own Talents until he resumes his true form. He also uses his own 
combat skills (modified by the borrowed form's attribute bo­
nuses) and his normal skills - the Talent borrows only the other 
person's physical body and does NOT include the character's 
memories, knowledge, or insanities. The transformation lasts 4 
melee rounds (one minute). 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Not available until 
fifth level. 
Cost: 15 P.P.E. permanent; 15 to activate, plus 15 P.P.E. for 
each additional minute the borrowed Morphus is kept. 
Darksong 
The Nightbane can emit a piercing, deafening sound; it can 
be an inhuman howl, a mighty roar, an ultrasonic keening, or 
even electronic feedback, depending on the Nightbane's Mor­
phus. Targets must make a roll to save (P.E. bonuses apply); if 
they roll under a 10, they are stunned for ID4 melee rounds. The 
attacker can raise the number needed to save by expending addi­
tional P.P.E.: + 1  point per 3 P.P.E. The Darksong can be used 
against an area (60 feet/1 8.3 m radius); in that case, everyone in 
the area, friend or foe, must make a save, but they are at +4 to 
resist. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. 
Cost: 7 P.P.E. are permanently spent to acquire it; 5 P.P.E. are 
needed to activate it (+3 to raise the save number by + 1 ). 
Doorway 
Creates a door of dark energy that leads to a specific location 
desired by the creator of it. Takes one melee round ( 1 5  seconds) 
of concentration. Range: To a location up to I mile ( 1 .6 km) per 
2 P.P.E. spent. The Nightbane must have been to the destination 
point at least once in his life, or he must have line of sight. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Not available until 
reaching 5th level. 
Cost: 15 P.P.E. to permanently acquire it, and a minimum of 
2 P.P.E. to activate (see above). This power can also open a 
doorway to the Nightlands or back, but this costs 40 P.P.E., plus 
5 P.P.E. per mile ( 1 .6 km). 
Darkwhip 
Creates tendrils of darkness that inflict supernatural damage 
with a P.S. equal to the amount of P.P.E. spent on creating them. 
Lasts for 4 melee rounds (one minute), after which they must be 
recreated. Range is 60 feet ( 1 8.3 m). The tendrils can have any 
shape, not limited to whips and tentacles, although those are the 
most common. The Darkwhip can be used to strike and also to 
entangle or disarm, provided those skills are known to the 
wielder. 
108 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. 
Cost: 8 permanent to acquire; 4 to activate (additional P.P.E. 
increases the amount of damage the whip inflicts with each 
strike). 
Infectious Control 
This often repulsive Talent allows the Nightbane to take over 
a person by "infecting" him with a portion of his body. The 
manifestations of this power are varied. Some Nightbane shoot 
spines or needles that pierce the flesh of the target, allowing 
them to take over. Others create little "parasites" that burrow 
into the victim's body. Biomechanicals often drill or shoot wires 
or microchips into the victim. Some Stigmata sufferers actually 
force-feed the victim some of their blood to infect them. Once 
the infection is complete (usually takes one melee round from 
the time the piece of the Nightbane has entered the body of the 
victim), the subject is controlled by the Nightbane for one melee 
round ( 1 5  seconds). At the end of the round, the victim can try to 
resist (save vs magic); if he fails the save, he is under the control 
of the Nightbane for 30 minutes. New saves are allowed every 
1 0  minutes. 
While in control, the Nightbane can see, hear and experience 
everything his victim does while he acts as a puppeteer, control­
ling every word and movement of the victim. The main draw­
back is that the Nightbane has to split his concentration and 
attention between his own body and that of his victim. Thus, his 
attacks/actions per melee round are divided evenly between the 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
two bodies. He has no initiative bonus, and combat bonuses and 
skill performance is reduced by half, unless he relinquishes his 
control over his puppet. 
The "infection" also allows the Nightbane to search the 
memories of his victim; one piece of information can be ex­
tracted by spending an additional 5 P.P.E. (and the victim gets a 
separate save to resist against the intrusion; this save is against 
psionic attack rather than magic). Each "memory search" takes 
ID6 minutes and is limited to one small bit of information at a 
time. 
Limitations: Usable only in Morphus form and is not avail­
able until 6th level. 
Cost: 20 P.P.E. are permanently spent to acquire it; 20 P.P.E. 
to activate, plus 20 P.P.E. every additional half hour. The mem­
ory of the victim can be searched for an additional 5 P.P.E. per 
piece of information. 
Note: Victims who have an M.E. of 7 or less are controlled for 
an hour at a time rather than the usual half an hour. 
Lightning Rider 
The Nightbane becomes a being of pure electrical energy! 
Unless a great deal of P.P.E. is spent, the electrical charge is 
weak and does not inflict damage. However, while in electrical 
form, the Nightbane can travel through conductive materials at 
enormous speeds. When the power is activated, the Nightbane 
disappears in a flash of electricity and "leaps" onto the nearest 
conductive material (metal and exposed wires works best). If no 
such material is around, the Nightbane appears to become a 
small pool of sparks, or a small crackling lightning ball that 
crawls around at a speed of 8. 
With the invention of the telephone and electrical wires, this 
Talent came into its own and enables Nightbane to travel from 
one comer of the world to the next in a matter of minutes 
through them. Some Nightbane become extremely proficient in 
navigating through telephone exchanges. The easiest way, of 
109 
course, was to call the place one wished to travel to and then 
travel through the phone lines and jump out of the receiver! 
With the advent of computers and the Internet, this power has 
become even more influential. A character with Computer Op­
erations can understand the information superhighway and hitch 
rides on modem calls. A character with Computer Programming 
can become the ultimate hacker! 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. 
Cost: 1 5  P.P.E. to permanently acquire it; 10 to activate per 
minute (it takes one melee round of concentration to activate). 
The Nightbane can increase the voltage to inflict damage: ID6 
S.D.C. per 5 P.P.E., per each attack; 8 points of damage will fry 
most electronics like radios, computers, etc. Tempest-hardened 
systems will survive as much as 40 S.D.C. points before being 
disabled. 
Mirror Sight 
This and other mirror related talents and natural abilities give 
the archaic name of "looking glass" great new significance when 
dealing with the Nightbane and the Nightlords. This Talent en­
ables the Nightbane to see the other side of a mirror, into the 
Nightlands, and vice versa, as if it were a window. A mirror or 
any highly reflective surface (glass, polished metal, a quiet body 
of water) must be available. The character can only see what the 
mirror image faces in the Nightlands, and vice versa. Some 
Nightlands creatures may sense they are being "looked at" and 
could cross over to confront or attack the "peeper" (see the 
NighUands Section for more information). 
Limitations: Requires a mirror; can be used by both Morphus 
and Facade. Duration is limited to 10 minutes per level of the 
character's experience. 
Cost: 5 P.P.E. for permanent acquisition; 2 to activate. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Mirror Search 
Prerequisite: Mirror sight 
The Nightbane is able to see through the mirror closest to the 
person or object he seeks. This is an area effect Talent that effec­
tively scans a 10 mile radius (more if additional P.P.E. are ex­
pended) in search of the person or item sought. This does not 
mean that the nearest mirror will reveal the target of the search, 
but the closest area and mirror to it. For example: Searching for 
a kidnapped friend, the mirror search may reveal the image of a 
bathroom in a hotel. The name of the hotel is visible from the 
hanging towels, which may be enough to figure out, at least 
roughly, where the person is. Or there may actually be a mirror 
in the hotel room (there usually is) that shows the Nightbane's 
friend bound to a chair and being interrogated by two thugs and 
a Hound. 
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. 
Cost: 10 P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 15 to activate for a 10 
mile area, +5 P.P.E. per additional 10 miles (16 km). 
Note: Both mirror sight and mirror search show only images, 
not sound - it's like looking through the glass of a closed win­
dow into the room or area where the mirror is located (which 
may show parts of other rooms or a hallway, things outside the 
windows in that room, etc.). 
Covering a mirror with a blanket, towel, or other covering will 
prevent a character from effectively using mirror sight and mir­
ror search, because all the mirror will show is that it is covered. 
However, it does not prevent a Nightlord or other so empowered 
110 
being from traveling and entering that room through the covered 
mirror, even if wrapped snugly - the monster tears right 
through the cloth or tarp. However, painting the mirror will pre­
vent such passage as well as the use of the mirror as a window. 
Nighthringer 
Absorbs light around the Nightbane, creating an area of dark­
ness equal to 10 feet (3.0 m) in diameter per every 2 P.P.E. 
spent. The power also absorbs energy attacks, except Shadow 
Blast, Darkwhip and other darkness-based attacks and magic. 
People caught in the unnatural darkness are at -6 to strike, parry 
and dodge, and -4 on their perception rolls (penalties are half for 
creatures with nightvision). 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. 
Cost: 5 P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 2 minimum to activate. 
Each additional 2 P.P.E. increases the diameter of the darkness 
by 10 feet (3 m). 
Premonition 
Gives the character feelings and visions about the future, often 
at unexpected times (ultimately, when the Game Master decides 
the character should get a vision, he does) or at moments of cri­
sis. For the most part, a premonition will give the character a 
feeling that something good, bad or dangerous is going to hap­
pen soon, or at some particular place, or to some particular per­
son. These feelings are just that, and do not come with any 
dreams or images. 
"Visions" on the other hand, are usually images and/or short 
dream sequences that are accompanied by "feelings." These im­
ages are often symbolic omens and can be cryptic (but G.M.s, 
not too cryptic) and may give some hints of things to come. For 
example: The Nightbane may have a reoccurring vision about a 
man or Nightlord, or minion slaughtering innocent people, his 
friends or even himself. The murderous figure is always in 
shadow so his features cannot be seen, but the vision always 
ends with the image of a stylized eagle. Then one day, the Night­
bane meets a person with a tattoo of that eagle, indicating that 
this person is the culprit, but not always. The tattoo could be the 
symbol of a gang or cult worn by all its members in one fashion 
or another. Or it could be the logo for a corporation, or the em­
blem for a special police squad, the hilt of a magic sword, a 
statue, the cover of a book, and so on. At any rate, it gives our 
hero some warning about danger and who or what might be in­
volved. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. A premonition 
can happen spontaneously, or when the Nightbane actively at­
tempts to sense the future. 
Cost: 2 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 2 to activate and 2 
when a spontaneous occurrence happens. 
Reshape Facade 
Although contemptuously called the Facade, the Nightbane's 
human form is as unique and real to him or her as the superhu­
man Morphus. Nightbane with this Talent can temporarily alter 
the shape of the Facade, changing the features, hair color and 
even the size of their human form. The more extensive the 
change, the more P.P.E. the transformation will cost. Imitating a 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
particular person is possible, but very difficult to get right (20% 
plus I.Q. bonus, plus 3% per level of experience). 
Limitations: Usable by the Facade only. Not available until 
the 3rd level. 
Cost: 1 2  P.P.E. to acquire it permanently, 6 to activate plus 4 
per additional hour the disguise is desired. 
See Truth 
Every time this power is activated, the Nightbane will be able 
to see the true nature of one person or object. In the case of 
Nightbane, the character will be able to see the target's true Fa­
cade and Morphus forms, superimposed on one another. The 
alignment of the target can also be seen by the character; appli­
cable to humans and Nightbane (in the latter case, counts as a 
separate use of this Talent). Furthermore, it will reveal strong 
magic emanations, the undead/vampires, serious illness, and 
strong emotions (hatred when the person is smiling and being 
nice, etc.); all considered aspects of the soul and/or personality 
of the target. 
The subject saves against magic (12 or higher) to resist re­
vealing the truth. The Nightbane can increase the difficulty of 
the save by expending more P.P.E.: every additional 4 P.P.E. 
raises the save number by + 1 (maximum of 1 8, for 24 P.P.E.). 
111 
Limitations: Range: line of sight up to 300 feet (91 .4 m) 
away. 
Cost: 3 permanent, 2 points to activate, +4 to increase save 
number by one. 
Shadow Shield 
Creates a force field of dark energy around the Nightbane, 
providing 20 S.D.C. per 2 P.P.E. spent (P.P.E. spent cannot ex­
ceed 4 per level of experience). The Shadow Shield completely 
surrounds the character, protecting him from toxic gases, dis­
ease, punches, bullets, heat, fire, and similar dangers as long as it 
remains in force; it is the shield that takes the damage inflicted 
by such attacks. 
Duration: 30 minutes per level of experience or until all the 
S.D.C. of the shadow shield is used up. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only; 4 P.P.E. points or 
40 S.D.C. per level of experience. 
Cost: 7 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 2 P.P.E. to activate 
with 20 S.D.C. plus additional P.P.E. to increase the level of pro­
tection. 
Shadow Slide 
The Nightbane must be in Morphus form for this power to 
work. The character becomes an insubstantial shadow, or, more 
accurately, like one of those mirages you can see on a paved 
road during a sunny day - a flickering shadow that seems to 
sink into the earth and fades away as if it never was. While in 
this two-dimensional form, the Nightbane can slither along walls 
or across the ground, virtually invisible and able to slide through 
any opening, no matter how narrow (only air tight containers 
will prevent the shadow-slider from coming through). The 
Nightbane's clothing and small personal effects are transformed 
automatically; additionally, he can carry objects at an additional 
P.P.E. cost (2 P.P.E. per pound/0.45 kg of weight). 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. 
Cost: 8 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 10 points to activate 
and 10 per each minute the Talent is maintained. 
Shadow Blast 
Fires a black energy bolt that does ID4 S.D.C. for every point 
of P.P.E. spent on it, so 10 P.P.E. would result in a ID4xlO 
S.D.C. bolt, and so on. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. The Nightbane 
can only spend 4 P.P.E. per level of experience. Range: 500 
feet/152 m. 
Cost: 5 P.P.E. to permanently acquire it; one P.P.E. per every 
ID4 points of damage, with limitations. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Sharing the Flesh 
This is a strange and horrific healing spell. The Nightbane 
touches an injured person to magically transfer the other per­
son's wounds, injury and pain to himself. The person being 
healed falls into a coma or sleep that lasts ID4 melee rounds and 
then awakens completely well. The effect is often gruesome, 
with nasty wounds spontaneously appearing on the Nightbane as 
the subject heals. The Nightbane can transfer as much damage as 
he or she can tolerate, which may be a little amount to all. This 
is actually a painful sacrifice on the part of the Nightbane as 
he/she heals as normal - fortunately, these creatures heal rap­
idly compared to humans. 
Limitations: Usable only while in the Morphus form and the 
Nightbane must perform this act of sacrifice of his own free will. 
Healing critically injured/comatose characters requires the 
Nightbane to temporarily expend 24 P.P.E. points and 1 00 of his 
S.D.C. and/or hit points to stabilize the injured person and heal 
the most serious injuries (brings the character up to 2D6 hit 
points). However, the pain and shock to his system will put the 
Nightbane in a coma for 2D4xl O  minutes. A Nightbane with 
less than a 100 S.D.C./hit points available at the time can per­
form the same healing but will die in the process. 
Cost: 2 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 8 to activate (see 
above for coma cases). 
The Shroud 
This powerful Talent enables a Nightbane to become invis­
ible and noiseless to both the normal vision and senses as well as 
to electronic devices like cameras, motion detectors, heat sen­
sors, etc. This ability can be used selectively, enabling some 
people to see the character while others can't. Vengeful Night­
bane have been known to drive a human insane by pursuing him 
in plain sight, invisible to everyone else. The victim's cries for 
help would be useless, for nobody else can see the monster 
threatening him! 
The power is very expensive to maintain for long periods of 
time (10 P.P.E. per minute). Also, the moment the Nightbane at­
tacks anybody (he can threaten, scream or make gestures all he 
wants), the Talent stops working and he becomes visible for all 
to see. Likewise, a Nightbane actively engaged in combat or 
other activity, or standing in plain sight, cannot activate this Tal­
ent to disappear. First, he must get out of sight. 
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. 
Cost: 12 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 10 P.P.E. to activate 
per each minute in effect. 
Soul Shield 
Protects against mental attacks/probes and the See Truth Tal­
ent. The Soul Shield acts like a psychic mind block, preventing 
most means of magical or psionic probes from intruding into the 
Nightbane 's mind. More importantly, while the Soul Shield is 
up, any spell or power that tries to control or dominate the 
Nightbane 's mind will automatically fail. 
Those who attempt to read the protected character's mind will 
see only a pool of utter darkness. The mind reader/psychic will 
find it very difficult to pry himself from that darkness (a save 
versus psionics is necessary; roll every melee round), and until 
112 
he does, he will be unable to do anything other than stare va­
cantly into space. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Duration: One 
hour. 
Cost: 6 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 4 to activate. 
Splittin' Image 
This powerful ability enables the Nightbane to separate his 
Facade and Morphus forms and act normally in both of them! 
The Nightbane in effect, becomes two people. The character is 
aware of what both sides are doing, but his consciousness must 
be focused on one form or the other (he can switch viewpoints at 
will). The form his consciousness is focused on acts normally; 
the other appears to lapse into a trance-like state and is at -2 on 
all combat and perception rolls, has half the normal attacks per 
melee round, and is at -40% to perform any skills. 
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus only. Not available 
until 5th level. Duration: One or more hours depending on the 
amount of P.P.E. expended. The character can merge back into 
one body at will. 
Cost: 15 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 20 to activate it for 
one hour and 10 P.P.E. per each additional hour (can spend the 
P.P.E. "up front" or as needed). 
Storm Maker 
This powerful talent enables the Nightbane to control the 
weather. Rain, winds and the temperature can be altered. The 
more extreme the changes and the greater the area affected, the 
more P.P.E. the character must spend. This talent is particularly 
powerful because two or more Nightbane who know it can com­
bine their efforts (and P.P.E.) to produce an even more powerful 
effect. There are legends of ancient Nightbane groups sending 
hurricanes and tornadoes against people who offended or injured 
them. 
The P.P.E. cost varies; the effects take ID6xlO minutes to 
manifest, and then lasts one hour. At the end of the hour, the 
same amount of P.P.E. must be spent to keep it going or it fades 
away. Some guidelines are given below: 
A minor change in existing weather conditions like raising 
the wind by up to 5 mph (8 kmph) , increasing or decreasing 
cloudiness, intensifying already existing rain, raising or lowering 
overall temperature by 4 degrees Fahrenheit: 5 P.P.E. 
A moderate change of weather conditions like starting rain 
on an overcast day, turning a downpour into a storm or vice 
versa, raising or lowering overall temperature by 10 degrees 
Fahrenheit: 10 P.P.E. 
Sudden, major change in weather like starting rain during a 
clear, sunny day, stopping a downpour, or creating a major thun­
der or electrical storm during a rainy day, raising or lowering 
overall temperature by 20 degrees Fahrenheit: 20 P.P.E. 
Extreme changes in weather like creating a fog, or starting a 
hailstorm or electrical storm during a clear, sunny day - or 
turning a storm into a sunny day, turning a thunderstorm into a 
tropical storm with near-hurricane winds (70 mph/1 12 kmph), 
raising or lowering overall temperature by 30 degrees Fahren­
heit: 40 P.P.E. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Total upheaval in weather such as starting a hurricane or tor­
nado from scratch (90+ mph/144 kIn winds), create a blinding 
snowstorm, dissipating a hurricane or terrible storm, raising or 
lowering overall temperature by 50 degrees Fahrenheit: 80 
P.P.E. 
The base area atTected has a radius of one mile ( 1 .6 kIn). 
Each additional mile of radius doubles the previous P.P.E. cost. 
For example: causing a moderate change in the weather costs 10 
P.P.E. for one mile/1.6 kIn, 20 P.P.E. for two miles/3.2 kIn, 40 
P.P.E. for three miles/4.8 km, and 80 P.P.E. for a four mile/6.4 
kIn radius. 
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available until 
reaching 5th level. 
Cost: 20 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; P.P.E. cost varies as 
described above. 
Elite 
Nightbane® Talents 
These powers have certain prerequisites. For instance, animal 
control abilities apply only to Nightbane who have some ele­
ments of those animals in their Morphus. 
Elite Talents seem to be an extension of the Nightbane's self­
conception, i.e. a machine-man might see himself capable of 
controlling other machines, but not animals. On the other hand, a 
biomechanical-animal Nightbane would have access to both 
types of powers. 
Bloodbath 
This grotesque power allows the Nightbane to use his own 
blood to suffocate victims. A stream of blood pours from the 
character (this inflicts ID6 points of damage to the character, ac­
tivating the Talent). The Nightbane is at +3 to strike with it. On 
a successful hit, the blood will rush into the victim's nose and 
throat, and cause him to choke! While drowning in blood, the 
victim is at -2 on all combat actions and is unable to use spells, 
Talents or any skill that requires concentration. The blood re­
mains alive for ID4 melee rounds, inflicting 2D6 points of dam­
age at the end of each melee round. A successful save versus 
non-lethal poison will avoid damage for that round, but the pen­
alties remain. Additionally, a victim unfamiliar with that attack 
must save versus a Horror Factor of 12 to avoid panicking. If 
panicked, the penalties for the victim are doubled. 
Prerequisite: At least one characteristic from the Stigmata 
Table. 
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available until 
3rd level. Duration: I D4 melee rounds. 
Cost: 15 P.P.E. for permanent acquisition; 8 to activate plus it 
inflicts ID6 S.D.C. points of damage on the user. 
Deus Ex Machina (Machine Control) 
The Nightbane can control machines from cars to micro­
waves, to lamps or weapons. One device can be controlled for 
every three points of I.Q. he has (thus, a Nightbane with an I.Q. 
113 
of 1 3  could control 4 machines). The machines can then be made 
to do anything within their capabilities. For example, a lamp can 
tum itself on or off, but nothing else. A car or a motorcycle 
could start its motor and ride off (until it left the range of the ef­
fect). While the Nightbane can control several machines, only 
one of them can be directly controlled on an action-by-action ba­
sis. The remaining mechanisms can be given a general order for 
the rest of the round. 
Example: The aforementioned Nightbane is trapped in a 
house by a number of NSB agents. Trying to create a diversion, 
he activates Deus Ex Machina and takes control of four ma­
chines, including a desk-top computer, a laser printer, a lawn 
mower just outside the house, and a lamp on the desk. He first 
orders the office machines to start the diversion, the lamp will 
tum itself on and off for a melee round, the computer will start 
making noise at the top of its Soundblaster speakers, and the la­
ser printer will start spitting blank pieces of paper. As the NSB 
are distracted by the noises coming from the office, the Night­
bane takes full control of the lawn mower and sends it roaring 
into their midst! As the agents shoot the hapless machine to 
pieces, the Nightbane quietly slips out the back. In a pinch, the 
character can also seize control of guns and even explosive de­
vices to prevent them from firing (or detonating) or to shoot (ex­
plode) whether the user wants them to or not. 
Prerequisite: At least one biomechanical characteristic. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Not available until 
the third level. Duration of control: One minute; Range: 300 feet 
(9 1 .4 m). 
Cost: 1 2  P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 4 to activate plus 6 
for each additional minute of control or 20 for an additional 100 
foot (30.5 m) radius of control. 
Swarm Self 
Causes the 
Nightbane s body to separate into 2D4xlO tiny 
animals of the same animal type as the character (see prereq­
uisites, below). The Nightbane controls this swarm and is 
aware of everything they do or see. Each swarm member has 5 
S.D.C. and I Hit Point. In combat, they do 1 point of S.D.C. 
damage individually or 5D6 S.D.C. from a group or swarm of 10 
or more every melee round (all 10 attack one target; several 
groups of 10 can attack different targets). 
The swarmlings have the same combat bonuses as the Night-
bane when attacking individually; they are small targets, re­
quiring a called shot at -5 to hit! If attacking as a group, each 
group of 10 will automatically swarm over a target in 3-5 sec­
onds (equivalent to a melee attack/action) and inflict the damage 
at the end of each melee round. Attacks on the swarm have no 
modifiers to hit; a swarm of 10 critters will have 50 S.D.C. and 
10 Hit Points. If the swarm takes more than half its S.D.C. dam­
age, it means that half of the critters are dead, damage is reduced 
to 2D6. When all the S.D.C. is depleted, this means that only 
two swarmlings remain, and they attack and defend normally 
(see above). 
The hit point (not S.D. C.) damage taken by the swarm carries 
over to the Nightbane's hit points after the swarm is destroyed 
or recalled. The swarmlings do not regenerate damage and the 
character must switch back to his normal Morphus form and 
limp away. At least two of the swarmlings must be present for 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
the Nightbane to rebuild himself, but most retreat and reform 
when reduced to 10 or 15. If all are destroyed, then the Night­
bane is slain. 
Prerequisite: At least one characteristic from the Animal or 