Biomechanical Table I
Many occultists point to the existence of Biomechanical 
Nightbane as proof that the Morphus is some sort of physi-
cal manifestation that reflects of the Nightbane’s personality. 
How else could these unnatural and artificial looking compo-
nents be part of the creature? Even before complex machines 
appeared, even some of the earliest Biomechanical Morphus-
es had limbs shaped like swords, metal gauntlets, and other 
weapons and gizmos. In the time of the Industrial Revolution, 
some Nightbane were reported to have steam-powered, pis-
ton-driven limbs and riveted-metal skins appeared for the first 
time. In the last years of the 20th Century, “cyborgs” became 
fairly common. Biomechanicals seem to embody the fascina-
tion and love or abhorrence and fear the character has toward 
machines or science.
Despite their artificial appearance, Biomechanical characteris-
tics are as much a part of the Nightbane’s living body as “natural” 
skin and bones. The Biomechanical components do not have any 
of the limitations of true cybernetic prosthetics, and heal at the 
same rate as the Nightbane does. In most cases, Disguise, Seduc-
tion and Undercover Ops skills are impossible.
01-10% Armorgraft: Pieces of archaic body armor (helmets, 
breastplates, gauntlets, chain mail, segmented mail) are fused 
with the Nightbane’s skin. Add 1D6x10 to S.D.C. and +2 to Hor-
ror Factor.
11-20% Plastic: Parts or all of the character’s skin has been 
replaced with plastic or rubber (player can pick the colors and 
texture). Bonuses: +5D6 to S.D.C. and +1 to Horror Factor, un-
less the skin coverings are made up of transparent plastic, reveal-
ing internal organs, in which case the Horror Factor is +1D4.
21-25% Rocket Jets: The Nightbane has metallic exhaust 
tubes and small jet engines growing out of his back! They provide 
limited flight: 80 mph (128 km), maximum altitude 5,000 feet 
(1,524 m) and hover capabilities. Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C. and 
+1 to Horror Factor. Penalty: There is actually a roaring sound 
of engines when the jets are used so Prowl is impossible even 
when hovering.
26-30% Metal Teeth and Talons: The Nightbane has metal 
fangs and talons instead of normal teeth and fingernails (may be 
retractable). The metal teeth inflict 3D6 points of damage with a 
bite, and the claws do +1D6 damage in addition to Supernatural 
P.S. punch damage. Bonuses: +2 to Horror Factor.
31-40% Metal Endoskeleton: Metallic bones are mixed with 
living flesh in grotesque ways. There is always a place where the 
metal seems to rip out of the skin, usually on the hands, arms, 
neck, cheeks and legs. Bonuses: +2 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +2D4x10 
to S.D.C., and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
41-50% Mechanical Limbs: The arms and legs of the Night-
bane are obviously mechanical. They may be piston-driven, huge 
mechanisms of iron and bronze, or microchip covered or chrome-
plated creations of “cyberpunk” mythology. These limbs do not 
bleed when struck, instead a sort of oil or grease may ooze out or 
wires, metal components and other artificial “guts” be revealed. 
Bonuses: +4 to P.S., +1D4x10 to S.D.C., (if he character has 
legs, they are also mechanical and get +4D6 to Spd), +1D4 to 
Horror Factor.
51-60% Weapon Hand: One or both of the Nightbane’s 
hands can metamorphosize, at will, into a hand to hand weap-
on such as a knife, a sword, battle axe, trident, sickle, etc. The 
weapon does normal damage for that particular weapon type, in 
addition to Supernatural P.S. punch damage, and is at no risk of 
breaking (see Supernatural Strength Damage). Bonuses: +1 to 
strike and parry with his weapon limb and +2 to Horror Factor.
61-70% Metal Exoskeleton: The character is covered in 
mechanical armor that can look hard and bulky with rivets and 
seams or smooth and chrome-like – Victorian-era Nightbane 
often walked the world with riveted iron instead of skin. Mod-
ern characters tend to “favor” metallic bands or a combination 
of metal plates and bands and resemble robots or suits of power 
armor. Bonuses: +3D6x10 to S.D.C., +2 to P.S., +1 to P.E., and 
+1D4 to Horror Factor.
71-80% Metal Head & Camera Eyes: The character’s head 
looks like a robot or cyborg and instead of eyes, he has two cam-
era lenses protruding from the eye sockets. These artificial eyes 
raise the character’s Nightvision range to 2,000 feet (610 m) and 
provide him with telescopic sight like a pair of high-powered bin-
oculars, and polarized filters. Even more amazing, the Nightbane 
can turn his eyes into movie projectors, and show moving pic-
tures of anything he remembers (the depiction will be literally as 
seen by his eyes and may reflect personal prejudices, bias, and 
emotions). These two-dimensional projections have no sound, 
but are otherwise picture-perfect. Bonus: +1D4 to Horror Factor.
81-90% Wheels or Treads: Instead of legs, the Nightbane is 
a two-wheeled man-machine hybrid. The upper body looks hu-
man or half human and half cyborg, while the lower body is a 
machine vehicle. The vehicle part of the body can look like a 
motorcycle, four-wheeled vehicle or miniature tank with treads. 
More than one motorcycle enthusiast has found himself grafted 
to a Harley Davidson, and gun-bunnies or military aficionados to 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
138
the chassis of a tank! Bonuses: +3 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +2D4x10 
to Spd, 3D64x10 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor. Note: The 
Nightbane may find it difficult to operate indoors or in confined 
spaces, -2 to all combat rolls.
91-00% Gun Limbs: The Nightbane has one or more guns 
built into his body! The grotesque result is usually a weapon bar-
rel protruding from flesh and muscle. These guns will have nor-
mal gun stats; the biggest gun available would be a rifle type do-
ing 6D6 S.D.C. damage. Note: This advantage actually requires 
a permanent P.P.E. sacrifice, equal to 1 P.P.E. per die of damage, 
and 2 P.P.E. if the gun is an automatic weapon (capable of firing 
bursts). Additionally, the character has to find bullets for the gun! 
A maximum of 100 bullets can be “stored” inside the body (to do 
this, the Nightbane literally has to shove the bullets into his flesh, 
inflicting 1D6 S.D.C. to himself per 10 bullets). Bonus: +1D4 to 
Horror Factor.
Morphus Tables from
Between the Shadows™