Insectoid Table 
Insect-looking Nightbane became much more common after 
Dark Day than before. It is believed that the "new generation" of 
Nightbane feel alienated enough from the world that they sub­
consciously picked such alien shapes for themselves. Insect 
shapes range from the beautiful to the grotesque, but most are 
strange and intimidating. All insect Nightbane instinctively 
know how to swim at a base proficiency of 50%, have acrobatics 
at 50% and climb at 60% (unless stated otherwise), as well as + 1 
to roll with fall or impact. 
As usual, the players select the insect species for his or charac­
ter. If desired, Game Masters may modify the bonuses listed be­
low to better represent the insect species picked by the player.
01-15% Giant Insect: The Nightbane becomes a giant in­
sect at least six feet ( I .S m) in length (spiders and scorpions are 
not insects; ants, bees, wasps, flies, dragonflies, mosquitoes, 
beetles, preying mantis, butterflies, and moths are some common 
insect types). Most giant insect fonns have at least one or two 
fonns of attacks, be it pincers and bite or claws and stingers. 
Many can fly (with wings that lay on the back of the body like 
flies or protrude like butterflies) and others can run at great 
speeds. 
98 
Bonuses: + 10 to P.S., +3 to P.P., +4 to P.E., and either 
+ID4xlO to running speed OR a flying speed of 2D4xlO. 
+4D6xlO S.D.C. to hard body insects like ants and beetles, or 
2D6xl O  S.D.C. for soft body insects like flies and butterflies. 
The giant insect is +3 on initiative and +3 to all perception rolls. 
Add I D6 to Horror Factor. 
Claws add ID6 S.D.C. to hand to hand damage, pincers 2D6, 
small insect mandibles 2D4 S.D.C. from bite attacks, medium 
2D6 and large (like ants and beetles) 4D6 points of damage. 
Stingers like those of the wasp or bee inflict 2D6 damage from 
the stabbing attack and an additional ID6 damage from poison, 
plus victims of the poison feel woozy and are -2 on initiative and 
- 1  to strike, parry and dodge unless they successfully save vs 
non-lethal poison. The stinger does not fall off and the creature 
can sting repeatedly. The Nightbane will be unable to use tools 
or weapons or perfonn complex skills (-40% on skill perfonn­
ance that requires human hands and dexterity).
16-35% Were-Insect: A bipedal combination of human and 
insect, with two pair of clawed, spindly anus, hands and legs, 
vaguely humanoid shape, and insectoid head complete with an­
tennae, pincer-like mandibles and multi-faceted eyes. Bonuses: 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
+6 to P.S., +3 to P.P., +3 to P.E., and either +5D6 to running 
speed OR a flying speed of 2D4xlO. 3D6xlO to S.D.C. for hard 
body insects like ants and beetles, or 2D4xlO S.D.C. for soft 
body insects like flies and butterflies. Claws add ID6 S.D.C. to 
hand to hand damage, and extra arms add one attack/action per 
melee round. Mouth mandibles inflict 3D6 points of damage. 
The insectoid is +2 on initiative and +3 to all perception rolls. 
Add ID6 to Horror Factor.
36-55% Humanoid-Insectoid: The Nightbane's Morphus is 
basically human-like, with an extra pair of arms and a number of 
insectoid characteristics. The head is human, except for large, 
round, multi-faceted eyes and antennae. The skin is covered with 
a chitinous exoskeleton that provides 2D6xl O  S.D.C. for hard 
body insects or ID6xlO S.D.C. for soft body insects. The char­
acter may have insect wings, but otherwise has no other unusual 
limbs. Bonuses: +4 to P.S., +2 to P.P., +2 to P.E., and either 
+3D6 to running speed OR a flying speed of ID4xlO. Claws add 
ID6 S.D.C. to hand to hand damage, and the pair of extra arms 
add one attack/action per melee round. The insectoid is + 1 on in­
itiative and +2 to all perception rolls. Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
56-70% Insect Wings: The Nightbane has an otherwise nor­
mal body, except for the insect wings protruding from his back. 
Bonuses: 3D6 to S.D.C. and can fly with a speed of ID4xlO+20, 
and + 1 to dodge when flying. Add 1 to Horror Factor.
71-80% Insect Head: An ordinary-looking human, except for 
the full insect head. Bonuses: 2D6 to S.D.C., +2 on initiative and 
+3 to all Perception rolls. The mandibles bite for 4D6 S.D.C. 
damage. Add ID4 to Horror Factor.
81-90% Insect Eyes: The character has multi-faceted eyes. 
Bonuses: Polarized vision (work like sunglasses to reduce glare), 
can see in the ultraviolet and infrared spectrum of light and is +2 
to all perception rolls. Unless the eyes are covered with sun­
glasses or mirror goggles, add +2 to Horror Factor.
91-00% Insectoid Centauroid: The Nightbane has the upper 
body of an insect-like humanoid with insect mandibles, eyes and 
antennae, and the lower body of a six-legged, giant insect; the 
insect body may also have wings. Bonuses: +6 to P.S., +2 to 
P.P., +2 to P.E., and +5D6 to running speed, plus ID6xlO flying 
speed if it has wings. The insectoid is + 1 on initiative and +3 to 
all perception rolls. Clawed hands add ID6 S.D.C. to hand to 
hand damage, and mouth mandibles inflict 3D6 points of dam­
age. Add ID6 to Horror Factor. 