Insectoid Table II
Those Nightbane with insect features typically “have a thing 
for bugs,” collecting, studying, and reading about them on a regular basis, and maybe even eating them! Of course, there are some 
Nightbane who view themselves as social outcasts having more 
in common with insects than human beings and may keep them as 
pets/friends, and/or respect them more than people.
01-10% Mantis Arms: One pair of arms is replaced by long, 
slender, chitinous limbs with sharpened barbs that line the inner 
edges. These limbs are much longer than equivalent human-like 
arms and fold inward toward the body of the Nightbane. This enables the character to grab and hold opponents just like the prey 
of a mantis. The grip is powerful and requires a Supernatural P.S.greater than the Mantis Nightbane’s own (see below) to break 
free. Bonuses: +5 to the P.S. attribute, +2 to strike, +2 to pull 
punch, +4 to entangle, +2 to Horror Factor, +15% to Climbing/
Rappelling, and any target successfully entangled by the Nightbane needs a Supernatural P.S. twice that of the Nightbane to 
break free. A slash with the barbed arms inflicts damage equal 
to Supernatural P.S. punch damage +1D6+3. Penalties: Without 
digits or opposable thumbs, most skills requiring manual dexterity are difficult in the extreme, -60% skill penalty to perform. The 
use of tools and simple melee weapons is impossible – cannot be 
held or used properly – though keyboards, steering wheels, doorknobs, large buttons, light switches and levers can be used with a 
little effort and care.
11-20% Spiracles: In place of lungs, the Nightbane has several small holes located all over the abdomen, back and neck 
through which he breathes. These spiracles are often concealed 
and hard to spot (a Perception Roll of 18 or better is needed to 
notice them with casual inspection). Bonuses: +3D6 Hit Points 
and +2D6 S.D.C. Cannot be choked or strangled by cutting off 
air in the neck/throat. Al spiracles would need to be blocked to 
choke this Nightbane, such as burying him up to his chin. Penalties: The Nightbane cannot speak or smell. Holding one’s breath 
is also impossible without lungs.
21-30% Proboscis: In the place of a mouth, a long, needlelike protrusion or flexible tube allows the Nightbane to ingest 
only liquids similar to drinking through a long straw, only this 
straw is part of his body. Bonuses: +1 to Horror Factor. A needlelike proboscis can be jabbed into soft targets to inflict one point of 
damage. On a successful strike roll of 16 or higher, this attack can 
then be used to draw out vital fluids like blood from the victim. 
For each attack spent draining the target, 1D6 damage is dealt 
directly to Hit Points! Penalties: -4 to the P.B. attribute and the 
proboscis only has two S.D.C. per 20 S.D.C. of the Nightbane, 
but will regrow completely in a matter of 5D6 minutes if severed, 
damaged or destroyed.
31-40% Stinger: A retractable stinger is housed somewhere 
in the Nightbane’s body. This could be a scorpion tail-like appendage or the stinger could extend from the forearm or wrist like 
a long knitting needle or spike. The stinger inflicts 2D6 damage 
(2D6+2 if barbed) for a stabbing attack and an additional 1D4 
damage if the victim fails to save versus non-lethal poison (needs 
16 or higher to save), and is affected by the poison the stinger 
releases. Poison: Victims are -2 on all combat rolls for 1D6 melee 
rounds due to swelling and muscle pain and a bit of a woozy sensation. A barbed stinger lodges in the victim and tears free from 
the Nightbane, doing 1D6 damage direct to the Nightbane’s own 
Hit Points. However, the stinger inside its victim continues to 
excrete its poison for 1D4 minutes or until removed. Poison does 
3D6 damage per melee round and removal of a barbed stinger 
by anyone other than a surgeon does an additional 3D6 damage. 
The Nightbane re-grows any lost stinger in 8 hours. Bonuses: 
+2D6 S.D.C., +1 to strike and parry with the stinger, +2 to save 
vs poison and drugs, and the Nightbane gets a +1 to his Horror 
Factor when the stinger is extended. Penalties: -1 to the P.E. and 
P.B. attributes.
41-45% Bombardier Chamber: Separate internal glands 
house two different chemicals that, when combined in a protected 
chamber inside the body, produce a volatile reaction similar to 
expelling napalm. This stream of viscous, superheated fluid deals 
5D6 damage to anyone in a 30 degree cone of effect up to 50 feet 
(15.2 m) away. Body armor only absorbs half this damage unless 
it is made to protect against hazardous chemicals, in which case 
protection is 100%. Those without natural armor struck by this attack must save vs pain at 15 or higher, including any bonuses for 
a high M.E. attribute. Failure to save causes the victim to drop to 
the ground and writhe in agony for the next 1D4+1 melee rounds. 
During this time they can do nothing except defend themselves 
against other incoming attacks and crawl at a speed of 3. Note: 
The chemical “payload” is limited to one attack per every 4 P.E. 
points of the Morphus. It regenerates at a rate of one attack’s 
worth every hour. Bonuses: +2 to strike and the chemical may 
be expelled from the Nightbane’s mouth or from an opening in 
his wrist (pick one). Penalties: The Nightbane is a potential timebomb! Any single attack that does more than 40% of the Morphus’s Hit Points has a 25% chance of breaching the chemical 
glands and causing the character to explode. The explosion does 
half the damage the remaining bombardier attacks would have inflicted to a 20 foot (6.1 m) radius. Under most circumstances the 
Nightbane is killed, though individual G.M.s can decide if some 
feature of the Morphus (like a plasmoid form) may prevent this 
or a split-second healing spell, activation of a Talent (like Swarm 
Self), or shift to Facade form might prevent the explosion.
46-55% Goo Glands: This Morphus has a number of exterior glands that are capable of secreting a sticky, foul-smelling 
substance that functions similar to tear gas. Anyone other than 
the Nightbane within 10 feet (3 m) of just a handful of this goo 
must roll to save vs non-lethal poison (16 or higher to save), to 
keep their eyes from tearing up and themselves from gagging. 
Those who fail lose one melee attack and are -3 on initiative and 
-4 to strike, parry, and dodge for 1D6+1 melee rounds. If at any 
time someone ingests this substance, they immediately lose all 
attacks for the entire round (15 seconds) to violent vomiting. The 
substance is also extremely difficult to wash off. The Nightbane 
can secrete up to 12 handfuls of goo per hour. However, the stuff 
only retains its irritant properties for 5 minutes. After that, it just 
smells bad, no penalties. Bonuses: The Nightbane is +4 to save 
vs tear gas and any other chemical irritant. Penalties: After this 
ability is used even once, the Nightbane smells terrible until he 
switches back to Facade form. This prevents any attempt to hide 
or Prowl within 30 feet (9 m) of anything with a nose. The smell 
does not win any friends, causing a temporary -5 to the M.A. attribute.
56-65% Climbing Filaments: Tiny, needle-like hairs cover 
the Nightbane’s palms and soles. This improves climbing ability 
and even allows the Morphus to cling to sheer surfaces as long as 
it is not completely smooth and featureless, like glass windows 
or polished chrome. Bonuses: +20% to the Climbing/Rappelling 
skill. Also, assailants are -2 to disarm the Nightbane as long as 
the weapon or object he holds is something the filaments can grip 
onto, like wood, leather, soft rubber, rope, etc.
66-75% Bioluminescence: One or more sections of the body 
glow with a soft light when in Morphus. While green, light blue 
and violet are the most common colors, any color is theoretically 
possible. Just like a firefly, this light is internally produced and 
can be controlled by the Nightbane to shine with different intensities and rhythms.
This Morphus feature can be used to illuminate a space for 
himself or others, see details in darkness, flash as a signal, attract 
prey, cause a distraction, and even flash Morse code messages. 
Perhaps most amazing of all is that, by temporarily sacrificing 
one Hit Point per melee round, the Nightbane can radiate the 
equivalent of magical sunlight like that from the spell Globe of 
Daylight. This drives vampires and other creatures vulnerable to 
sunlight out of the area filled with light produced by the bioluminescence. The maximum radius for such light is 5 feet (1.5 m) 
per level of the Nightbane. While no one is sure how the light can 
have this effect, some theorize that since it’s biologically created, 
the light symbolizes life and thus hurts and drives undead away 
the same as sunlight. This bright light completely illuminates the 
area enough to read a book or map, or see details on walls, doors, 
etc. Bonuses: +2D6 to S.D.C., +2 to the P.B. and M.A. attributes. 
Penalties: Unless covered in some way, the glow makes Prowling in dark environs difficult; -30% to the Prowl skill in such 
instances.
76-85% Danger Markings: In normal insects, these markings 
consist of brightly colored patterns that serve to warn predators 
away from trying to eat them. As part of a Nightbane Morphus, 
the markings are likely to be things that make the character seem 
scarier, stranger and more dangerous. Such as traditional bands 
and marks that look like lightning bolts or tiger stripes, false eyes, 
fangs, mandibles, horns, claw marks, claws, dark shadows to emphasize sunken or empty eye sockets or give the Nightbane an 
animalistic or skeletal appearance, etc. However, these markings 
can also take the form of recognized danger symbols like those 
for biohazard or radiation, black on yellow caution markings, racing stripes, a death’s head/skull/death mask, clenched fist, spider 
shape(s), barbed wire, and so on. Whatever the form or color, the 
message is the same: “Back off, pal. Don’t mess with me. I’m 
trouble.” Bonuses: +2 to Horror Factor and any creature with an 
animal I.Q. will avoid attacking the Nightbane unless attacked 
first, otherwise agitated or threatened, or commanded to do so by 
its master or leader. Penalties: Unless covered in some way, the 
markings may scare and intimidate potential allies and associates; -1D4 to M.A. and P.B. attributes and the Nightbane finds 
it difficult to blend in with ordinary looking people or disguise 
himself.
86-95% Camouflage Markings: These markings are designed to help the insect to blend in with its surroundings to hide 
from predators. While for normal insects this benefit is usually 
only for a certain number of environments, for the Nightbane the 
markings somehow seem to function equally well in most outdoor settings, actually changing and adjusting to fit his current 
environment. Bonuses: +10% to Prowl skill and ability to hide 
unseen when outdoors among forest and vegetation, rocks and 
desert and other natural environments. Penalties: The markings 
are a bit odd-looking, -1 to M.A. and P.B. attributes.