Biomechanical Table II
Players of Biomechanical characters can roll on the original 
table as presented in the Nightbane® RPG, page 105, or may 
roll on this one, or make selections from both. In most cases, 
Disguise, Seduction and Undercover Ops skills are impossible.
01-15% Screen Face: The face of the Nightbane is shaped 
normally, but the front of the face is a television or monitor 
screen instead of normal facial features. The screen images are 
controlled by the Nightbane; some flash written messages instead 
of talking, others have an animated or computer generated, car-
toon image of a normal face, some show test patterns and others 
show electronic snow. The images may be changed to reflect the 
character’s moods, or at random. Bonus: +1D4 to Horror Factor.
16-30% Speakers: Sound speakers are built into the head or 
body of the Nightbane. The actual location is determined by the 
player; some Nightbane have speakers instead of mouths, eyes, 
or ears, while others have them built into their torsos. The Night-
bane can produce frightening human, animal and/or electronic 
sounds (but not specific voices). These sounds add to the Horror 
Factor of the Nightbane and can be used to intimidate. Bonuses: 
+1D4 to M.A., and +3 to Horror Factor. A frightened or intimi-
dated victim (failed to save vs Horror Factor or intimidation fac-
tor) is -2 on initiative and -5% on all skill performance. Range for 
the sound transmission is roughly 100 feet (30.5 m).
31-45% Tool Hands: Any type of handheld tool, from hedge 
clippers and scissors to screwdrivers, drills and pliers replaced 
one or both hands of the character. If both hands are replaced 
with tools, any skill requiring delicate finger control is at -30%. 
Bonuses: The tools do +3D6 damage in addition to Supernatural 
P.S. punch damage, +1 to parry, and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
46-60% Monitor Eyes: The eyes of the character are replaced 
by two digital monitors or camera-like lenses. Some act like a 
hospital’s life sign monitors, with a line that jumps at every heart-
beat flashing through the monitors, some wave and jump in re-
action to the character’s voice or emotions, while others project 
psychedelic light shows, or simply flash with artificial green or 
violet light. Bonuses: The eyes raise the character’s Nightvision 
to 2000 feet (610 m) and +2 to Horror Factor.
61-75% Chainsaw Arms: One or both of the Nightbane’s 
forearms are replaced by a chainsaw. This lethal weapon does 
4D6 S.D.C. in addition to Supernatural P.S. punch damage. Bo-
nuses: +1 to parry, +1D4 to Horror Factor. Note: Nothing can be 
held by the chainsaw arms and characters with two such arms will 
be at a great disadvantage in performing skills (-70%).
76-90% Computer Creature: A home computer is built into 
the body of the Nightbane. The screen may be in the head, face, 
eyes, or built into the chest or belly. The keyboard is often grown 
onto a forearm, and connected by a cable(s) to the body, and the 
processor is usually in the upper or lower torso or hip. The com-
puter will actually work, and will read information from disks, 
thumb drives and other computers. Retractable interface cables 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
140
are included. Bonuses: +15% on Computer Operations and Pro-
gramming skills, +5% for Computer Hacking when he uses his 
“personal” computer, and +2 to Horror Factor.
91-00% Projectile Limbs: The hand, forearm or entire arm 
or arms of the character can be “fired” at a target. The hands act 
like flying fists, returning to the character after they strike. These 
projectile limbs have a range of 300 feet (91.4 m) and are +2 to 
strike. They inflict normal punch damage for the character, plus 
any claws or weapon damage that may be part of the hands.