Amphibian Table ------
This category covers frogs, toads and salamanders. Amphibi­
ans have long been part of arcane and occult lore, from quaint 
"ingredients" in witches' brews to creatures attributed with a 
number of magical powers. Salamanders have often been associ­
ated with the element of fire, and toads and frogs, which nowa­
days are subjects of amusement, were once regarded with fear. 
Many stories about people being turned into frogs may have 
their roots in Nightbane phenomena.
01-20% Full Amphibian: The Nightbane is shaped like a gi­
ant toad, frog or salamander, typically with the same length as 
his/her human Facade's height. The creature cannot be confused 
for a normal member of the species due to its enormous size. Bo­
nuses: +4 to P.S., +2 to P.P., + I to P.E., +2D6x 10 S.D.C. If a 
toad, the character can jump 30 feet (9 m) from a standing posi­
tion, and swimming speed is the same as running speed. If a 
frog, the character can jump 80 feet (24.4 m) from a standing po­
sition and swimming speed is double the running speed. If a 
salamander, add + I D6 to running speed, and swimming speed is 
double. 
In all cases, bite damage does 2D6, and most creatures have a 
long prehensile tongue that can reach targets up to 20 feet (6 m) 
away. The creature can also hold its breath underwater for 3D4 
minutes. There is a 1 0% chance that the Nightbane will have 
poisonous glands that cover his skin with a contact poison. Ex­
posure to the poison (touch with bare skin) inflicts a red rash and 
does 3D6 S.D.C. damage (to human and supernatural characters) 
unless a save versus lethal poison is successful. A save means a 
small rash and only I D6 damage. Add +3 to horror factor.
21-45% Were-Amphibian: 
A 
barely humanoid frog­
man/amphibian, with overlong fingers and smooth, moist skin 
(dry and lumpy if a toad). The head is that of a full frog, toad or 
salamander. Bonuses: +3 to P.S., + 1  to P.P., +1 to P.E., 2D4x l0 
S.D.C. The character can jump 30 feet (9. 1 m) from a standing 
position, and up to 40 feet ( 1 2.2 m) with a running start. Swim­
ming speed is double the character's running speed. Bite damage 
does 2D4, and most creatures have a long, prehensile tongue that 
can reach targets up to 1 5  feet (4.6 m) away. The character can 
also hold its breath underwater for 2D4 minutes. There is a 10% 
chance that the Nightbane will have poisonous glands that cover 
his skin with a contact poison. Exposure to the poison (touch 
with bare skin) inflicts a red rash and does 2D6 S.D.C. damage 
(to human and supernatural characters) unless a save versus le-
131 
thaI poison is successful. A good save means a small rash and 
only 1 D4 damage. Add + 1 D4 to horror factor.
46-70% Amphibian Humanoid: The creature has humanoid 
features, and its basic shape is roughly human, so that the char­
acter might hide his deformities under bulky clothing and a head 
covering. The leg's shape is still impossibly bow-legged, the fin­
gers and toes are webbed, and the character has a crouched pos­
ture most the time, as if getting ready to leap - all this will 
inevitably attract attention. Bonuses: +2 to P.S., + 1 to P.P. and 
P.E., and ID4x l O  S.D.C., can leap 1 5  feet (4.6 m), swim at 50% 
faster than running speed, and hold breath for I D6 minutes. Bite 
attack does ID6 S.D.C. Add +2 to horror factor.
71-80% Amphibian Centauroid: The Nightbane has the up­
per torso of humanoid shaped frog, toad or salamander, and the 
lower body of a salamander, including four legs and a long tail. 
Bonuses: +4 to P.S., +1 to P.P., +2 to P.E., and +2D6x l O  S.D.C. 
Swimming speed is double running speed. Bite damage does 
2D4, and most creatures have a long, prehensile tongue that can 
reach targets up to 10 feet (3 m) away. The character can also 
hold its breath underwater for 2D4 minutes. There is a 10% 
chance that the Nightbane will have poisonous glands that cover 
his skin with a contact poison. Exposure to the poison (touch 
with bare skin) inflicts a red rash and does 2D6 S.D.C. damage 
(to human and supernatural characters) unless a save versus le­
thal poison is successful. A save means a small rash and only 
I D4 damage. Add + I D4 to horror factor.
81-00% Amphibian Head: A normal looking human with 
the head of a frog, toad or salamander! Bite inflicts 3D6 damage, 
and the Nightbane has a long, prehensile tongue that can reach 
targets up to 1 5  feet (4.6 m) away. Can hold breath underwater 
for 1 D4 minutes. Add + 1 to horror factor. 