Superbeing Table
While the primary milieu of the Nightbane setting is one of 
dark supernatural horror, it must be remembered that there is 
something more (or less) human about the Nightbane and their 
comparatively awesome powers that leads to comparisons be-
tween them and the super-heroes of comic book, film, and tele-
vision fame. And what adolescent or young adult in modern 
society could help but consider these similarities when they 
wake up and find themselves transformed into a monstrous or 
beauteous being with superhuman abilities that seem to defy 
reality? Mutant. Superman. Defender of the weak. Protector of 
the innocent. Champion against evil. All these things can be 
said about many Nightbane and are apparent to those Night-
bane who love the super-hero genre. They identified with a 
particular comic book character or type of superbeing so heav-
ily that their Morphus exhibits features common to so-called 
super-heroes! The appearance of such features may reflect a 
specific, known character, a completely unique creation but 
with comic theatrics and noble sensibilities, or some blending 
of the two.
These Nightbane are often considered a bit naïve or too ideal-
istic and even immature by their more experienced and pragmatic 
brethren, but they have also been known to display higher than 
average conviction to their morals and extreme valor under fire, 
and face difficult circumstances with a positive attitude. They, 
more than many other Nightbane, also care about ordinary people 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
59
and try to avoid collateral damage and protect those not blessed 
with superpowers.
Those Nightbane who style themselves after super-villains ex-
hibit the same comic book flair and theatrics as their super-hero 
counterparts, but are known to be some of the most vindictive, 
maniacal and scheming adversaries to deal with, and tend to be 
shunned even by other Nightbane.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Super-Brain: The cranium of the Nightbane may be 
enlarged and even have the shape of a brain, or show the enlarged 
brain under bulletproof glass, or perhaps the character has the 
stereotypical “mad scientist” look. Whatever the case, the Night-
bane becomes much more intelligent than normal while in Mor-
phus form. Some Nightbane with this feature become attached to 
the increased cerebral power and find any excuse to stay in Mor-
phus form. Others like returning to “normal” and thinking about 
one thing at a time rather than juggling five or more concepts 
or tasks simultaneously. Bonuses: +2D4+4 to the I.Q. attribute, 
+1D4+1 to M.E., +3 to save vs mind control, illusions and pos-
session, +20% to ALL skills when in Morphus and knows 1D4+3 
additional skills total from one or a combination of the following: 
Science, Medical, Electrical or Mechanical skills (with a +30% 
bonus) when in Morphus. Penalties: -2D6 to permanent P.P.E. 
base, -1D4 to the M.A. and P.S. attributes, -2 to the P.E. and Spd 
attributes, -1 on Perception Rolls and initiative (distracted), -2 to 
save vs magic, and -1 to Horror Factor.
11-21% Super-Fast: The legs of the Morphus may be ex-
ceptionally strong and muscular, and surrounded by an odd en-
ergy and may have special boots, and wings or lightning bolt 
design elements. Biomechanical Nightbane will be beautifully 
streamlined and aerodynamic. However this feature manifests, 
the Nightbane can move with blinding speed whether running, 
swimming, or flying. Bonuses: Multiply the character’s initial 
Spd attribute number x10 and +1 extra attack per melee round! 
+2 damage to physical attacks, punches, kicks, body blocks, and 
strikes with a melee weapon per 20 mph (32 kph) above 40 mph 
(64 kph) the Nightbane is traveling. Even running at maximum 
speed does NOT fatigue the Nightbane in any way, and +3 to roll 
with punch, fall or impact. Penalties: -2D6+6 from the perma-
nent P.P.E. base, -3 on Perception Rolls due to moving so fast and 
being distracted or bored, and -2 to save vs magic and illusions. 
High metabolism requiring the Nightbane to eat three times more 
than an average human being. Without enough food, double the 
Perception penalty, reduce speed and S.D.C. by half, -1 melee 
attack, and -15% on the performance of all skills.
21-30% Super-Strong: The musculature of the Morphus 
form is exaggerated like many comic book heroes. The upper 
body may even seem slightly out of proportion to the lower body 
just due to the sheer muscle mass packed into the chest, shoul-
ders, and arms. With this overabundance of brawn, the raw physi-
cal power of the Nightbane is drastically increased. Some level 
of comic-style physics does seem to be at work, though, as the 
lifting and carrying capacity skyrockets. Bonuses: +1D4+10 to 
the P.S. attribute (and resulting Supernatural P.S. damage), hand-
some with a square chin and thick flowing hair, and punches and 
physical attacks do 50% greater damage to Nightlords, their de-
monic minions and all denizens of the Nightlands. The hero is 
able to lift and carry triple the normal weight as well as throw 
objects three times farther than normal. +1D6x10 to S.D.C. and 
+2 to Awe/Horror Factor. Penalties: -1 to the P.P. attribute and 
-1D4+2 to Spd, -1D6 from permanent P.P.E. base, and -30% to 
skills like Disguise, Impersonation and Undercover Ops.
31-40% Chiseled Jaw and Physique or the Bold and the 
Beautiful: In Morphus, The character has the good looks of the 
traditional comic book hero/heroine, i.e. movie star with rugged 
good looks, perfect skin and beautiful hair that stays perfectly 
coiffed even in the most brutal battle. The face and body are well-
proportioned, chiseled and sexy, and may look nothing like the 
Facade! In short, the ideal of the perfect human specimen with-
out physical flaws. Bonuses: +1D4+1 to P.S. and P.B. attributes, 
+6D6+10 to S.D.C., +1 to Awe/Horror Factor, +10% (in addition 
to possible M.A. or P.B. attribute bonuses) to charm and impress, 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
60
or evoke trust or intimidation, and +20% to Public Speaking and 
Seduction skills (though no true hero would do the latter). Penal-
ties: -2 to the M.E. attribute, -2D6 to the permanent P.P.E. base, 
-10% on the performance of all other skills, and may underesti-
mate his opponent and overestimate his own abilities.
41-50% Super-Costume: The Morphus is clad in a dynam-
ic costume befitting a cartoon or comic book super-hero. This 
might be the ubiquitous spandex body-suit that may or may not 
cover the head and face, and could display a host of different 
styles, with and without a flowing cape. A crest, symbol or em-
blem is likely to be worn on the chest of his costume and or 
belt buckle. Whatever the individual looks like, the suit marks 
the Nightbane as a crusading hero and typically draws atten-
tion. Bonuses: +2 to the M.A. and P.B. attributes, +2D4x10 
to S.D.C., +2 to Natural A.R., and +1 to Awe/Horror Factor. 
It also completely regenerates damage at the same rate as the 
Nightbane heals. Penalties: -10% to the Prowl and -20% to 
skills such as Camouflage, Disguise, Impersonation, Tailing 
and Undercover Ops in Morphus form unless the costume can 
somehow be concealed.
51-60% Oversized, Flowing Cape or Cloak: The Nightbane 
wears an oversized cape or cloak that clasps to the shoulders and/
or goes around the throat and drapes to below the knees. This gar-
ment gently billows behind the character even in the absence of a 
breeze. The colors and overall design of the cape or cloak are left 
to the player, and can be brightly colored or dark and ominous, 
and may bear some kind of emblem or crest that represents the 
Nightbane’s heroic persona. The same crest or emblem is likely 
to be worn on the chest of his uniform or costume. The cape also 
represents some cool powers, described below. Bonuses: +1D6 
to Spd attribute, the cape itself has 1D6x10+40 S.D.C. and a Nat-
ural A.R. of 14. It is large enough to completely cover the Night-
bane and up to two other adults to serve as a temporary shield 
or shelter to protect against gunfire, explosions, falling debris, 
etc., +20% to the Concealment skill when hiding things in the 
cape. The cape enables the superbeing to hover, float and fly in 
the air at a speed equal to his Spd attribute (so probably not very 
fast, but still, he can fly!), and +2 to Awe/Horror Factor. Penal-
ties: -1D4 to P.E. and -1 to P.P. attributes, -2D6 from permanent 
P.P.E. base, and -10% to all Physical skills, including Climbing 
and Prowl, as the cape gets in the way.
61-70% Energized: The Morphus is frightening because fire 
or energy covers or crackles around the head and conceals the 
face except for glowing eyes and the inside of the mouth. This 
Morphus channels and generates energy that causes the char-
acter to faintly glow and crackle with ripples of energy, be it 
fire, electricity, or other type of energy. The color of the energy 
can be almost anything. Any super-hero style costume may re-
flect the character’s energy power or not. Bonuses: +2 to P.P., 
+1D6x10+20 S.D.C., resistant to energy (takes half damage) and 
is able to fire an energy blast (fire, electricity, laser beam, energy 
beam). Energy Blast (special): 3D6 damage +1 point per level of 
experience; double damage to the Nightlords, their demonic min-
ions, all creatures from the Nightlands, and all demons. Range: 
200 feet (61 m) +20 feet (6.1 m) per level of experience. Each 
blast counts as one melee attack. Penalties: -4D6+6 from the 
‘Bane’s permanent P.P.E. base, -2 from M.A. and M.E., -50% 
to Prowl, Disguise, Seduction, and Undercover Ops in Morphus, 
and tends to be aggressive and violent in Morphus form and en-
joys combat and violence.
71-80% Technonaut or Cyborg: The Morphus is that of a 
half-man, half-machine monster with bionic or Biomechanical or 
bio-engineered (could be chitinous or bone) body parts and living 
armor that is part of the head, face, neck, shoulders, arms, hands, 
thighs and lower legs. Whatever the material – metal, ceramic, 
resin, bone, chitinous shell, etc. – it is a living part of the Night-
bane’s body. This may have grown out of the fact that the charac-
ter loves technology and/or science fiction, or the idea of human-
alien hybrids or cyborg-like characters such as Mr. Spock, Mr. 
Data, the Borg, Cylons, Darth Vader, Terminator, etc. Bonuses: 
+1D6 to P.S. and +2D6 to Spd, +1D6x10+80 to S.D.C., Natu-
ral A.R. 14, +1 to Horror, Factor and has one of the items listed 
under 81-90% Gadgeteer, below, with double the range (where 
applicable). The mechanical or non-flesh and blood components 
of the Morphus self-repair and completely regenerate at twice the 
rate that the Nightbane heals. Penalties: -2 to M.A., M.E. and 
P.B. attributes, -2D6 from permanent P.P.E. base, -30% to skills 
like Disguise, Impersonation, Prowl, Seduction and Undercover 
Ops in Morphus form, and -3D6 P.P.E. points from the perma-
nent P.P.E. base.
81-90% Gadgeteer: This individual probably thinks of him-
self as a super-spy or ninja and the Morphus reflects that. The 
typical Morphus is a super-spy type jumpsuit with mask and may 
include a high-tech pair of gauntlets or gloves that go up to the 
elbow, and maybe an eyepiece or goggles (whether it actually 
does something or is strictly for show), as well as gadgets that are 
either built into or strapped onto his body, or carried in a back-
pack (may be a hard-shell backpack), web vest, and/or utility belt 
that is part of the Morphus. The gadgets, even if seemingly loose 
objects like a gun, tools, boots, backpack, etc., are literally a part 
of the character and cannot be used by anyone else (they do not 
work for anyone but that specific Nightbane).
Bonuses: +1D4 to I.Q. and M.A. attributes, +1D4x10+10 to 
S.D.C., +5% to Prowl and any Espionage or Rogue skills, and 
gets 1D4+3 of the gadgets listed below. The mechanical or non-
flesh and blood components of the Morphus self-repair at the 
same rate that the Nightbane heals. If destroyed or lost, it takes 
24 hours for a gadget to re-materialize. Each gadget has only 20 
S.D.C. unless otherwise noted. Penalties: -1D4 to P.S., -2D6+16 
from permanent P.P.E. base, -20% to skills like Disguise, Imper-
sonation, Seduction and Undercover Ops while wearing all of his 
gear and gadgets in Morphus form. When most of his gadgets are 
destroyed, out of ammo or lost and only one or two remain, the 
Nightbane loses his confidence and is -30% to the performance 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
61
of all skills, -1 melee attack, and all combat bonuses are reduced 
by half.
The Gadgets: Choose 1D4+2 of the following.
1. Lock Pick Tool: A small tool (or cybernetic finger) that 
looks like a lock pick or serrated spike that fits into a lock. It has a 
92% ability to Pick Locks the same as the skill when used to pick 
civilian grade locks of all kinds, within 1D4 melee actions; -20% 
to pick high-tech locks, military grade locks or alien locks. This 
device can also be used to start any car and most vehicles (G.M. 
discretion). It also imparts upon the Nightbane the Locksmith and 
Safecracking skills at a base level of 50% (does not improve with 
experience), but they are only available in Morphus form.
2. Eggshell Grenades: 1D6+2 small spheres that emit a thick 
cloud of smoke when shattered. The smoke obscures vision in a 
cloud that covers a 10 foot (3 m) radius, imposing a -8 penalty to 
combat rolls for all inside the area of effect (including the Night-
bane). Eggshell grenades are intended for distraction and evasion 
purposes.
3. Glide Pack: This is a small backpack or folded membrane 
mounted on the Nightbane’s back that opens up and extends into 
glider wings. While this set of wings does not provide powered 
flight, it does enable the character to leap from a rooftop, sky-
scraper, high place or aircraft and make a controlled descent from 
any height. Piloting the glider is done with a 74% proficiency 
+1% per level of experience, and the Nightbane is +1 to dodge 
while gliding. The wings have 50 S.D.C. each.
4. Grapple Gun: The item may appear to be an oversized flare 
gun or something built into or attached to the forearm (point and 
shoot). Regardless of the form it takes, this tool actually fires a 
mechanical or magnetic grapple attached to a 100 foot (30.5 m) 
spool of high-test cable that is itself anchored to a miniaturized 
winch on the “gun” or in his back or backpack. Hits on a success-
ful strike roll of 8 or better (-2 if shooting at a moving target or 
he is moving, -2 if the target is smaller than a microwave oven; 
penalties are cumulative). The cable has 20 S.D.C. per foot (0.3 
m) and can hold up to 1,000 pounds (450 kg).
5. Laser Torch: This miniature cutting laser is either a hand-
held device or Biomechanical unit built into one of the fingers or 
forearm (there may be a Biomechanical cable that leads to the 
fuel canister on his hip, back or backpack). The laser can slice 
through most materials in seconds! Wood, plaster, plastic, ce-
ramic, aluminum, rubber, and other soft materials can be cut at 
a rate of 15 feet (4.6 m) per melee round, while concrete, stone, 
ballistic ceramics, iron, steel, safes or molecular bonded super-
materials/alloys are cut at a speed of one foot (0.3 m) per melee 
round (15 seconds). It can be used as a weapon but has the same 
range as a punch, is -2 to strike and inflicts 2D6 damage. Each 
laser strike counts as one melee attack. The payload for the torch 
is effectively unlimited and it has a range of six inches (0.15 m).
6. Mini-Map: This is a device that uses a variety of sensors 
to display a rough map of the surrounding 50 feet (15.2 m) and 
up to one story above and below the character’s current location. 
The display includes an icon for the character as well as a com-
pass bearing and GPS coordinates and is projected onto a visor, 
eyepiece, or wrist-mounted digital screen. This tool adds +30% 
to all Navigation skill rolls and ensures that the Nightbane always 
knows the lay of the land even on unfamiliar turf. Must have 
GPS access outdoors and computer access to floor plans or tap 
into the existing security camera systems. If neither is available 
(like inside most homes, old warehouses, factories and buildings, 
caves, and sewer systems, etc.), there is no map or floor plan/
layout available.
7. Multi-Optical System: High-tech or unusual looking gog-
gles are part of this character’s suit and headgear, or Biomechani-
cally built right into his face! It provides: Laser rangefinder and 
telescopic zoom (2 mile/3.2 km range), low-light compensation 
(passive nightvision; range: 1,000 feet/305 m), infrared and ul-
traviolet view modes (range: 1,000 feet/305 m), macro-lens (20x 
magnification), and an auto-tint feature that protects against sud-
den flashes of light.
8. Rebreather Mask: This is a small mouthpiece or half-mask 
that fits over the nose and mouth and may be part of the char-
acter’s mask, helmet or head gear. It enables the Nightbane to 
breathe underwater for up to 1D4 hours. Needs the same amount 
of time to recharge with a new oxygen supply.
9. Rocket Jump Boots: Slightly oversized boots or Biome-
chanical lower legs provide the Nightbane with the ability to per-
form thruster assisted leaps. 50 feet (15.2 m) high or 12 feet (3.7 
m) high and 100 feet (30.5 m) across. Engaging the rocket boots 
when dropping or falling from a height of up to 200 feet (61 m) 
high enables the Nightbane to land on his feet with a soft thud and 
no damage. It slows the descent from higher falls, but the Night-
bane still takes half damage. Rocket powered leap kicks or body 
block, count as two melee attacks but do an additional 10 points 
of damage and have a 01-50% chance of knocking a human-sized 
opponent off his feet (victim of knockdown loses initiative and 
one melee attack).
10. Stun Bola: The bola consists of two or three lengths of 
high-tensile cord with weighted ends. These can be be fired from 
a gun or from a Biomechanical weapon built in the forearm, or 
twirled and thrown to wrap around a humanoid target in an at-
tempt to lash together the legs or to knock a weapon or device 
out of an opponent’s hands (-2 to disarm and requires a Called 
Shot, the intended victim can only try to dodge). It takes 1D4+2 
melee actions to untangle the legs, or a Supernatural P.S. of 30 or 
greater to snap the cords in one melee attack, or 30 S.D.C. to cut 
yourself free. PLUS the bola releases a burst of electricity meant 
to stun or incapacitate its victim. A roll of 13 or higher is needed 
to save. A successful save means one point of damage but no pen-
alties. Failure to save means the victim is stunned, -2 attacks for 
that melee round and -3 on all combat rolls for 1D4 melee round 
(15-60 seconds). If the roll to save was 5 or lower, the victim is 
dazed and unable to attack and is barely aware of what’s happen-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
62
ing around him for 1D4 melee rounds. Note: Has three sets of 
bolas. Stun bolas can be recovered and reused, unless damaged 
or destroyed, in which case it takes 24 hours for them to reappear.
91-95% Mutant or Alien: The superbeing has muscles and 
chiseled features, wears a super-hero costume and/or cape, but 
has an unearthly skin color (blue, green, red, orange, white like 
snow, black like pitch, etc.) and inhuman features – think Star 
Trek aliens or the X-Men. Bonuses: +1 attack per melee, +1 
to I.Q., +1D6 to P.P. or P.S. (pick one), +2 to M.A. attribute, 
+1D6x10+12 to S.D.C., +1 to Horror Factor, and +10% to Public 
Speaking and Seduction (though no true hero would do the lat-
ter). Penalties: -2 to the M.E. attribute, -3D6 to the permanent 
P.P.E. base, -10% on the performance of all skills, and may un-
derestimate his opponent and overestimate his own abilities.
96-00% Theme Music: Dramatic or heroic music follows 
the Nightbane wherever he or she goes. These melodies seem to 
emanate from the air around the character or may play through 
speakers on Biomechanical Nightbane. The music automatically 
matches the mood of the Nightbane (up-tempo when fighting, 
slow and plaintive when contemplative, perplexed or depressed, 
light when happy, bold when triumphant, etc.). When the charac-
ter wishes to make a grand entrance or attempts some daring feat, 
one particular song will play, giving him or her a personal theme 
song. This music may be silenced at will, but the Nightbane must 
concentrate to do so. Bonuses: +1 to all saving throws and +2 to 
Awe/Horror Factor at all times. The character gets an additional 
+1 melee attack, +4 to damage, and +1 to strike, parry, dodge or 
disarm, but only when his music is playing! Penalties: Other than 
possibly annoying others, Prowl is impossible while the music is 
playing, and when the theme music is NOT playing, the Night-
bane is -1 melee attack, -2 on all combat maneuvers, -2 to save 
on all saving throws, -2 to save vs Horror Factor, and -15% on 
skill performance.
New Common Talents
The number in brackets indicates which level of experience 
some powerful Talents become available.
Hotwire
[4] Hound Leash
[2] Hyper-Awareness
[3] Ignorance is Bliss
Inferno Fist
Iron Will
Jam Senses
[6] Killing Spree
Launch
Leap
[2] Leave No Trace
Livewire
[2] Mage Siphon
[7] Mass Transit
[2/4] Mimic Spell
[2] Mimic Talent
Mirror Sense
[4] Mirror Shield
[4] Nega
[2] Open Channel
Phantom Limb
Pipe Bomb
Pocket Change
Raven Wings
[4] Reality Mooring
[3] Skill Stealer
All-Nighter
[3] Ashes to Ashes
Blast Wave
[4] Bomb-Maker
Bookworm
[3] Brain Freeze
Bypass
[2] Chain Lightning
Channel Speed
Channel Strength
[4] Chronosphere
[5] Darkblast
[2] Dark Edge
[2] Darkmetal Infusion
Death-Grip
Down the Drain
[7] Dust in the Wind
[3] Earthworks
Eavesdrop
Encryption
[2] Fear No Evil
[4] Flurry
[7] Form-Lock
[2] Frightener
Ghost Tag
Gunslinger
Sky Writer
[3] Solar Flare
Switchboard Operator
Trap Shadow
Ultra-Vision
Wall Runner
[2] Wall Whisperer
Witch-Hunter’s Sight
All-Nighter
Since Nightbane still need a relatively normal amount of 
sleep, this simple Talent can be incredibly useful. Using All-
Nighter staves off the effects of sleep deprivation for an entire 
day at a time and enables the user to remain fully awake and be 
completely alert without sleep. This can be particularly useful 
when on guard or lookout duty, on the run from the authorities, or 
when trying to maintain a dual-identity as an average citizen and 
resistance fighter. Using All-Nighter also gives the Nightbane a 
slight Perception bonus of +1 and a +3 to save against sedatives 
or sleep-inducing powers.
Limitations: Using this Talent only delays the need for sleep, 
so eventually the character will have to catch up on rest to the 
tune of at least four hours for each day of sleep that was skipped. 
All-Nighter can only be activated once per day, and may not be 
used on an unwilling subject.
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
63
Note that while it is technically possible to stay awake indefi-
nitely with this Talent, it is not natural and feels uncomfortable 
to go more than 3-5 days without sleeping. After 7 consecutive 
days of being awake, roll once each day on the Random Insanity 
Table on page 44 of the Nightbane® RPG. These insanities are 
temporary and disappear after the required amount of rest.
Range: Self or one other by touch.
Duration: 24 hours.
Cost: One P.P.E. to acquire permanently. Twelve P.P.E. per 
use.
1-2 pounds (0.45 to 0.90 kg) = 1D6 damage: Heavy books, 
a medium-sized carved statue, axe handle, hockey stick, shovel 
handle, broom, mop, cane, fallen branch, a pair of blue jeans or 
slacks, a dress, a heavy jacket, a typical bed pillow, and similar 
items.
3-5 pounds (1.3 to 2.25 kg) = 2D6 damage: Large, heavy 
books, baseball bat, staff, a large picture frame, and similar.
6-20 pounds (2.7 to 9 kg) = 4D6 damage: Very large, heavy 
books, small shelving, small or light table, most simple wooden 
chairs, wooden folding chairs, very large picture frame, small 
split log, and similar.
25-35 pounds (11 to 16 kg) = 1D4x10 damage: Hollow-core 
interior door, small coffee table, desk chair/office chair, folding 
wooden table, wooden chest, and similar.
40-80 pounds (18 to 36 kg) = 2D4x10 damage: wood pallet, 
bookshelf, wooden kitchen table, large coffee table, solid-core 
door (usually an exterior door), light to medium desk, medium 
dining room table, armchair/easy chair, large log for fireplace and 
similar.
85-120 pounds (38 to 54 kg) = 2D6x10 damage: Heavy wood 
table, picnic bench, large heavy desk, large dead tree branch, log, 
and similar.
The target has no chance to dodge out of the way because he 
is just suddenly consumed in flames. HOWEVER, living tar-
gets (as opposed to an inanimate object, fence, wall, streetlight, 
vehicle), get to save vs magic. A roll of 15 or higher is needed 
to save. Failure means full damage. A successful save vs mag-
ic means the intended victim takes only 20% damage (round 
down). Note that the target of the attack can be something like 
an object or structure and does not have to be flammable to be 
damaged.
Limitations: This Talent can only be performed when in 
Morphus and it is not available until third level of experience. 
Only a single, combustible object (generally nothing larger than 
a love seat) can be sacrificed and its energy channeled to an-
other target, and not anything like an entire house or the front 
porch, or part of a fence or wall. The item must be combustible, 
items made of ceramic, metal, plastic, stone, or concrete can-
not be used. Limited to wood, paper, rubber and fabric. Magic 
items cannot be sacrificed nor can a living tree/plant, person or 
animal. Portions of objects cannot be sacrificed either, it’s all 
or nothing. Damage is always done to a target’s armor or magi-
cal shields first, and beings impervious to fire take no damage, 
though clothing and personal belongings on the target’s person 
may be burned to a crisp. Those resistant to fire take half dam-
age.
Range: Touch for the sacrificed object that is turned into ash, 
and 100 feet (30.5 m) for the attack delivered upon the real target.
Duration: Instant.
Cost: Thirteen P.P.E. to acquire permanently. Two P.P.E. for 
every weight category.
Ashes to Ashes
To activate this Talent, the Nightbane must be holding or 
touching a combustible object/item to sacrifice so that he may 
transfer the fiery damage to his intended target. The item held 
or touched is reduced to ashes in a flash of flames destroying it 
utterly. In the same instant, that fire is directed at the true target 
of the character’s choosing; line of sight required. The damage 
unleashed depends on the weight of the sacrificed object.
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
64
Blast Wave
This Talent enables a Nightbane to generate a powerful con-
cussive shock wave that originates from his person. This wave 
of force expands rapidly outward in all directions or just in front 
of him, sending anyone and anything not sufficiently heavy or 
secured, flying several yards/meters away, and shattering fragile 
objects like windows. While this is primarily a defensive Talent 
meant to force back enemies within melee range, under the right 
circumstances it can be used to deadly effect; such as on the roof 
of a skyscraper. Victims caught in the shock wave are thrown 
1D6 yards (0.9 to 5.5 m), take 2D6 damage, lose initiative, lose 
two melee attacks and are shaken up; -5% on the performance of 
all skills for one melee round. Reduce damage, but not penalties 
by half with a successful roll with impact of 16 or better.
Limitations: The user can only expend 6 P.P.E. per level of 
experience on this Talent’s activation. Also note that the Night-
bane cannot selectively affect those within the radius or forward 
arc of the blast. Everyone takes damage and is thrown. The only 
exceptions are those inside a vehicle or one to two people in 
physical contact with the Nightbane who are willed to be pro-
tected from the wave.
Range: 20 foot (6.1 m) radius around the Nightbane, or a wide, 
forty foot (12.2 m) swath in front of him. Can control range/area 
of effect in increments of three feet (one yard/meter).
Duration: Instant.
Cost: Six P.P.E. to acquire permanently. Double this activa-
tion cost if used in Facade form.
Bomb-Maker
Most common among Nightbane belonging to the Resistance 
or Warlords factions, this Talent enables the user to transform 
inert substances into a variety of lethal explosives. For instance, 
a glass bottle of olive oil can be changed into a gasohol-filled 
Molotov cocktail, a barrel of sawdust into one of gunpowder, or 
a handful of clay or putty into C-4. While these explosives mimic 
the properties of their real-world equivalents (nitroglycerin is un-
stable, gunpowder won’t ignite when wet, etc.), the blast radius 
and damage they unleash depends on the P.P.E. used to transform 
the substance as well as the amount.
Damage: 4D6 S.D.C. from “low-grade” explosives like TNT 
or gunpowder per 10 P.P.E. points spent, makes a one liter or 
one pound (0.45 kg) amount of low-grade explosive with a blast 
radius of 4 feet (1.2 m).
15 P.P.E. creates a half pound (0.225 kg) of high-explosives 
like plastique that does 1D4x10 S.D.C. damage with a blast ra-
dius of 3 feet (0.9 m).
Any explosives created with this Talent are indistinguishable 
from the genuine explosives, which also means they can be de-
tected and neutralized in the same manner. These substances are 
NOT magical in nature and will not do extra damage to beings 
vulnerable to magic. It is interesting to note that this Talent is 
similar to abilities over matter and energy exhibited by the Night-
lords, which if brought to the attention of Spook Squad would 
only serve to reinforce their suspicions and fears about the Night-
bane.
Limitations: Nightbane can only use this Talent in Morphus 
form. Not available until 4th level. Only the explosive substance 
is created, not the containers for or means to detonate it. This 
means that for something like C-4, an electronic detonator will be 
required for it to be of any use. Likewise, to create things like gre-
nades or land mines, the Nightbane or allies will have to acquire 
the proper casings in which to install the explosive (or substance 
to be converted).
Range: Touch to transmute into an explosive material.
Duration: The explosive material remains viable for 6 hours 
per level of experience. After that the explosive becomes inert 
and reverts back to its original material.
Cost: Seventeen P.P.E. to acquire permanently.
Bookworm
With this Talent active, a Nightbane is able to quickly obtain 
any knowledge written on paper or similar material. To do so, the 
book, magazine, scroll, or whatever written source is devoured 
whole. While this may seem odd, it actually has a couple of ad-
vantages. The first is that once the pages are swallowed, every 
word is instantly known by the Nightbane. Another advantage is 
that the language the text is written in does not prevent the Talent 
user from understanding the content, even if it is as obscure as an 
ancient and/or forgotten language.
The bonuses/effects vary depending on what information 
is consumed. Eating a book or magazine, the character knows 
and remembers everything in it as if he had just read it. A di-
ary or a handwritten journal could reveal a critical clue relevant 
to an investigation. Technical or instructional material tempo-
rarily gives the Talent user the information in the book AND 
1-4 skills at 90% (or boosts existing skills to the 90%+1D6% 
level) required to use that knowledge (i.e. repair an engine, 
computer programming or operation, piloting an aircraft, etc.). 
On the rare occasion the pages of a spell book or scroll is de-
voured, it temporarily enables the Bookworm to cast that spell 
(or spells) contained in it, but only if the Talent user can already 
cast spells. If there is no understanding of magic, the Nightbane 
cannot cast spells.
Devoured text is not subject to any real biological process-
es and simply ceases to exist after being eaten – its knowledge 
or abilities available one melee round (15 seconds) after be-
ing eaten. It should be noted that Nightbane in the Seekers 
might be in the best position of any of their brethren to use 
this Talent, though a very few do so as destroying knowledge 
is tantamount to heresy for this covetous Faction. Many Noc-
turne Nightbane, however, have been known to make use of 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
65
Bookworm for a quick knowledge boost in times of need. This 
fact has caused no small amount of friction between these two 
groups.
Limitations: Usable in Morphus form only. Any source 
devoured is utterly destroyed. Only biological material can be 
devoured, meaning that items like stone inscriptions, overhead 
transparencies (printed on clear plastic), photos on photographic 
paper, slides, and similar are unable to be absorbed. Devouring 
enchanted or cursed tomes may have unforeseen consequences, 
so G.M.s should use their best discretion. Any knowledge gained 
is not permanent, and disappears whenever the duration of the 
Talent lapses.
Range: Self.
Duration: One hour per level of experience.
Cost: Seven P.P.E. to acquire permanently. One P.P.E. per 
25 pages of most mundane texts, but 2 P.P.E. per each page of a 
spell book or page equivalent for a scroll.
Brain Freeze
When a person consumes a cold substance too quickly, it can 
cause acute pain often referred to as “brain freeze.” This Talent 
allows the Nightbane to induce a similar experience in others, but 
magnified to a much greater and debilitating degree. If the target 
fails to make a saving throw vs magic of 15 or higher (include 
any P.E. bonus), then he is stricken by a severe, temporary pain 
that seems to spread from between his eyes straight to the back of 
the skull. When in the grips of Brain Freeze, the victim is -5 on 
Perception Rolls, -2 on all combat rolls, automatically has initia-
tive last, skill performance is done at -30%, and spell casting or 
the use of psionics or Talents is impossible until the duration of 
Brain Freeze expires. And unless it is obvious, the victim cannot 
remember what he or she was about to say or do. If in the middle 
of a skill, he cannot remember the next step until the freeze is 
over.
Limitations: Can only be used in Morphus form. Not avail-
able until 3rd level. Has no chance to affect immortal beings 
or supernatural creatures with physiologies radically different 
than humans (such as Nightland Hounds, Hunters, Hollow Men, 
Tarantuloids, etc.), though it will affect Night Princes (but not 
Nightlords), vampires, and Nightbane in Facade form or very 
human-looking Morphus forms.
Range: 200 feet (61 m), +20 feet (6 m) per level of experience; 
line of sight required.
Duration: 1D4 melees (15-60 seconds), though this can be ex-
tended (see cost below).
Cost: Ten P.P.E. to acquire the Talent permanently. Six P.P.E. 
for the initial attack and 1D4 melee round duration. If the target 
fails to save, the Talent user can choose to spend an additional 6 
P.P.E. at the beginning of each subsequent melee round to extend 
the duration for another melee (15 seconds) up to eight times in 
a row.
Bypass
As the name suggests, this Talent allows users to disable 
both conventional and high-tech locks and electrical surveil-
lence systems and cameras. This includes padlocks, magnetic 
seals, deadbolts, camera systems and alarms. Even complex 
electronic locks and alarms such as those used in high-security 
corporate and government facilities can be sprung given enough 
time.
Simple locks like those on store-bought diaries, cheap jewelry 
boxes, file cabinets, bedroom doors, or bathroom stalls are the 
easiest and quickest to bypass. Instant, counts as one melee at-
tack/action.
Standard locks are those found on most houses and common 
businesses, and include the majority of padlocks, handcuffs, 
security doors, car doors, car trunks, car ignitions, and similar. 
Takes 1D4 melee rounds (15-60 seconds).
Complex locks are more robust than standard locks, such 
as those on prison-cell doors, locked hospital wards, com-
mercial security doors, common safe/combination locks, key-
less automobile ignitions, simple/basic commercial alarm and 
video systems, and similar. Shuts off the alarm and its sensor 
systems and any video cameras without triggering the alarm. 
However, the video feed goes dark and anyone watching the 
monitor screens will notice that the feed went dark, but no 
alarms were tripped (just a glitch or investigate?). Takes 1D4 
minutes.
Advanced locks, high-tech safes and security systems as found 
in the highest security areas, including bank vaults, high-risk re-
search and medical facilities, top-secret data centers, government 
and military facilities, and similar. These locks are almost impos-
sible to crack under normal circumstances and require significant 
time and P.P.E. expenditure to get through even with this Talent. 
4D4 minutes!
Limitations: Only usable in Morphus form and only affects a 
single lock per activation of this Talent. Use of Bypass disables 
locking mechanisms and any alarms, video cameras and other 
security systems that are tied into the lock/door. Does not work 
on magic locks or magical protections.
Range: Touch.
Duration: Varies as noted above.
Saving Throws: Locks also get a saving throw or difficulty 
quotient: 15 for advanced (and alien locks), 8 for complex, 5 for 
standard, 2 for simple. The Talent user needs to roll higher than 
the saving throw number on a D20 to successfully open the lock. 
A failed roll means it is still locked, try again.
Cost: Six P.P.E. to acquire permanently. One P.P.E. per use 
for simple locks, 2 P.P.E. for standard, 6 P.P.E. for complex me-
chanical or simple electronic locks, and 14 P.P.E. for the most 
advanced electronic locks or vault doors.
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
66
Chain Lightning
This Talent enables the Nightbane to unleash a devastating 
electrical attack capable of striking multiple enemies in close 
proximity to one another within a 30 foot (9.1 m) radius. The 
chain lightning jumping a second apart from one target to the 
next. The bolt of lightning generated strikes the first target for 
the full amount of damage, then moves on to another target to 
inflict one die less damage, and the next reduced by another die, 
until striking the last target for 1D6 damage. For example, if a 
character spent 9 P.P.E. to send out a bolt then the first target 
would take 3D6 damage, the second would take 2D6 damage, 
and the third target would sustain 1D6 damage. Chain light-
ning only travels from one living creature to the next and starts 
with the initial target and then leaps to the next closest, and the 
next closest after that in descending order. The Nightbane can 
dictate which targets will be hit beyond the first and the order 
of preferred targets, but this costs him two melee attacks. Oth-
erwise, targets beyond the first are determined via proximity to 
one another.
The Chain Lightning Talent is useful against groups of en-
emies or adversaries, but can be especially effective on Hounds, 
Hound Masters, Great Hounds, Hunters, and anyone using 
Darksteel weaponry or armor. These enemies must make a sav-
ing throw of 12 or higher including any P.E. bonus or they be-
come dazed! Dazed targets lose initiative and two attacks for 
that melee; these penalties are cumulative with successive at-
tacks. Furthermore, Hunters and other flying creatures take ad-
ditional damage from this Talent (use eight-sided rather than 
6-sided dice for damage).
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available 
until 2nd level. The maximum P.P.E. used to activate this Tal-
ent is limited to 9 per level of experience. Only damages liv-
ing beings, not inanimate objects. Each individual in the area 
of effect can only be struck once per attack, so any damage 
capability remaining after all available targets are struck dis-
sipates.
Range: 100 feet (30.5 m) +20 feet (6.1 m) per level of experi-
ence to a 30 foot radius (9.1 m; double distance and radius of 
effect in the Nightlands). Ideal against a cluster of enemies and 
users of Darksteel.
Duration: Instant.
Cost: Ten P.P.E. to acquire permanently. Nine P.P.E. for a 
3D6 damage lightning blast to the initial target (2D6 to the next 
victim, 1D6 to the third). The amount of damage can be increased 
in increments of 1D6 at the cost of 3 P.P.E. per each 1D6 points of 
damage up to a maximum of 7 times, making the blast to the first 
target as much as 10D6 (or 1D6x10) damage! Then 9D6 damage 
to the next target, then 8D6, then 7D6, then 6D6, then 5D6, then 
4D6, then 3D6, then 2D6 and finally 1D6, affecting as many as 
10 targets within the area of effect. Most attacks, however, are 
less than this, usually starting out at 6D6 damage.
Channel Speed
One of a handful of Talents meant for use only in the Facade 
form, Channel Speed taps into the power of the supernatural Mor-
phus form to temporarily add 6 points to the P.P. attribute and 10 
points to the Spd attribute for a brief period. The character also 
gains +1 to initiative and +2 to strike, parry, and dodge (in ad-
dition to any possible bonuses from improved P.P.). While this 
Talent is active, the user’s eyes dim and wisps of shadow rise like 
thin smoke from the hands and feet. Even though the Nightbane 
is in Facade form, he registers as a supernatural being for the 
duration of this Talent to any beings able to sense such things.
Limitations: Can only be used in Facade form. Only the bo-
nuses listed above are added, do NOT add bonuses from Morphus 
features.
Range: Self only.
Duration: See cost below.
Cost: Eight P.P.E. to acquire permanently. Eight P.P.E. per 
two melee rounds (30 seconds).
Channel Strength
One of a handful of Talents meant for use only in the Facade 
form, Channel Strength temporarily adds 10 points to P.S. and 6 
to P.E. in addition to providing 60 S.D.C. to the user. Any dam-
age dealt to the character is subtracted from this additional tem-
porary S.D.C. first. The character also gains +2 to save vs poison 
and disease, and +2 to save vs psionics, in addition to any pos-
sible bonuses from improved attributes. The Facade’s strength is 
converted to Supernatural for the duration of this ability. While 
this Talent is active, the user’s eyes dim and wisps of shadow rise 
like steam from the body, arms, and legs. Even though the Night-
bane is in Facade form, he registers as a supernatural being for 
the duration of this Talent to any beings able to sense such things.
Limitations: Can only be used in Facade form. Only the bo-
nuses listed above are added, do NOT add bonuses from Morphus 
features.
Range: Self.
Duration: See cost below.
Cost: Nine P.P.E. to acquire permanently. Nine P.P.E. per two 
melee rounds (30 seconds).
Chronosphere
Activating this Talent alters the temporal flow in the Night-
bane’s immediate vicinity. Anyone of the user’s choosing within 
the affected radius must make a saving throw of 16 or higher 
including any P.E. bonus or find themselves temporarily moving 
at half their normal speed. Those affected have half the number 
of melee attacks (rounded up), as well as a -2 penalty to all com-
bat rolls against anyone unaffected by the Chronosphere Talent. 
Anyone entering the area of effect after the initial activation must 
make the save as well or suffer the slowing effects. Likewise, 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
67
projectiles or other non-magical attacks leveled against those 
within the Chronosphere are -4 to strike and do half damage as 
they slow upon entering the affected area.
Note that Chronosphere is one of a handful of very rare Tal-
ents that can be used even in Facade form without any visual 
manifestation other than the slowed movement of those affected. 
The Talent user is not affected, but everyone else is. Those who 
can sense magic or anomalies in space and time will detect the 
Chronosphere.
Limitations: Not available until level four.
Range: Five foot (1.5 m) spherical radius per level of experi-
ence; double the radius for those with a Morphus feature from the 