Bat Table
Bat-like Nightbane have often been confused with vampires 
and demons. It may not be an accident that many Nightbane with 
such Morphus were fascinated with creatures of the night before the Becoming. During Dark Day, many an Anne Rice fan 
found himself or herself turned into something beyond any vampire tales’ wildest imaginings. While vampire bats seem to be 
dominant among these Nightbane, all bat species can be found 
in one shape or another. All bat characters instinctively have the 
base skills of Climbing at 45% and Prowl at 20% whenever they 
change into their Morphus shape. In most cases, Disguise and 
Undercover Ops are impossible.
01-20% Full Bat: The Nightbane has the shape of a giant bat, 
typically with a wingspan of over seven feet (2.1 m)! Bonuses: 
+2 to P.S., +2 P.E., +4 to P.P., a flying speed of 1D6x10+20, 
+2D4x10 to S.D.C., and +1D4 to Horror Factor. Ultra-acute hearing adds +3 to initiative and +4 to any Perception Rolls involving 
sound. Unlike true bats, the Nightbane’s vision is not impaired 
(same as a human’s). The clawed feet inflict 2D6 plus hand to 
hand damage, and its bite does 2D6 to S.D.C. Penalties: Its arms 
are giant, leathery wings with hands at the middle joint. This limits the character’s ability to manipulate tools and use weapons, 
both of which are impossible when flying, although it can carry 
small objects in its hands or large items or people in its prehensile 
clawed feet. -6 to strike, -35% to perform skills.
The bat form is also capable of using its screeching as a form 
of radar, allowing it to sense invisible figures and obstacles concealed in total darkness, fog, smoke, etc. Range is 500 feet (152 
m).
21-40% Were-Bat: This Morphus is more human-like, although still predominantly bestial. The Nightbane is covered with 
fur, and its head is animalistic, with a snout and the oversized 
ears of a bat. Instead of arms it has full bat-wings, but they end 
in large, clawed hands that can be used to grasp objects and use 
tools or weapons (-3 to strike, -15% to perform skills; neither can 
be done while flying). Bonuses: +3 to P.S., +3 to P.P., +3 to P.E., 
the character has a flying speed of 1D6x10, +1D6x10 to S.D.C., 
+1D6 to Horror Factor. ultra-acute hearing adds +1 to initiative 
and +3 to all Perception Rolls involving sound. Unlike true bats, 
the Nightbane’s vision is not impaired. The bat form is also capable of using its screeching as a form of radar/sonar, allowing it 
to sense invisible figures and see with obscured vision at a range 
of 200 feet (61 m). Claws on hands and feet inflict 2D4 S.D.C. in 
addition to normal hand to hand damage. Bite does 2D4 S.D.C. 
Add 1D6 to Horror Factor.
41-60% Humanoid Bat: The Nightbane’s skin is sparsely 
covered by fur, and the face and features are mostly humanoid, 
with pointy but small ears and sharp fangs marring an otherwise 
normal face and head. Small bat-wings extend from beneath the 
arms, making normal clothing very uncomfortable to wear (the 
wings can be folded, but this restricts movement). Bonuses: +2 
to P.S., +1 to P.P., and limited flying speed of 1D4x10. +1D4x10 
to S.D.C., acute hearing adds +2 to all Perception Rolls involving sound, and +1D4 to Horror Factor. Claws on hands inflict 
1D6 S.D.C. in addition to normal hand to hand damage. Bite does 
1D6 S.D.C. Add 1D4 to Horror Factor. The Nightbane does NOT 
have the bat’s sonar sense.
61-80% Bat Wings: The Nightbane looks like a perfectly 
normal human – except for the bat wings protruding from his/her 
back, which give him a demonic appearance. The wings allow for 
flight. Bonuses: Spd 1D6x10, +1 to dodge when flying, +4D6 to 
S.D.C., and +2 to Horror Factor.
81-00% Bat Head: A normal human body, topped by a perfect bat’s head. Bonuses: +2D6 to S.D.C., ultra-acute hearing, 
+2 to initiative, +4 to any Perception Rolls involving sound, and 
+2 to Horror Factor. Unlike true bats, the character’s vision is not 
impaired. The bat form is also capable of using its screeching as 
a form of radar, allowing it to sense invisible figures and see in 
total darkness, fog or smoke at a range of 500 feet (152 m). A bite 
inflicts 2D6 S.D.C.