Mythical Creature
It seems that every culture the world over, has its stories about 
weird and wicked beings that should not exist. Modern man 
largely scoffed at these tales for the past couple of centuries. The 
minority who believe in the existence of beings like Bigfoot or 
Nessie are shunned as fools, the superstitious, hucksters, luna-
tics, or at least incredibly gullible. But since Dark Day, the world 
has become a place where monsters and demons are said to walk 
the Earth. Indeed, vampires stalk the alleys and monstrous be-
ings from the Nightlands and other dimensions hide in human 
guise. Who is to say that some of the ancient stories don’t have 
at least a grain of truth to them? How many accounts in the past 
resulted from Nightbane being spotted by early man? How many 
Nightbane end up resembling these mythical creatures because 
of the legends? Honestly, you might as well debate the age old 
chicken and egg issue. The fact is, a small number of Morphus 
forms uncannily match either the old stories, myths and legends, 
or modern reimaginings of them.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Bigfoot/Wendigo/Yeti: This Nightbane is likely be 
a nature lover or environmentalist, or just someone fascinated by 
the legends and stories about Bigfoot. The Sasquatch-type Mor-
phus is a tall humanoid with thick, shaggy fur covering most of 
the body. The facial features are reminiscent to primates such 
as chimpanzees, as are the long, powerful limbs. The legs and 
feet, however, are better suited for walking and running than 
climbing through trees, and shaped more like a modern human’s. 
Bigfoot Nightbane are 7-8 feet (2.1 to 2.4 m) tall and weigh 
300-350 pounds (136.5 to 157.5 kg). Bonuses: +1D6 to the P.S. 
and P.E. attributes, +2D6 to Spd, +1D4x10 S.D.C., Nightvision 
is extended to 1,000 feet (305 m), +2 on Perception Rolls espe-
cially regarding ambushes, hiding and tracking in the wilderness, 
+20% to the Prowl, Camouflage and Climbing skills in wooded 
environments, and +10% to all Wilderness skills. Automatically 
starts with the Leave No Trace Talent. Penalties: -1 to I.Q. and 
M.A. and -2 to P.B. attributes; custom clothing is necessary to 
clothe these forest giants, and these Nightbane can be somewhat 
shy and slow to trust others. They also tend to eschew high-tech 
“gadgets” like cell phones and computers. -30% to Disguise, Im-
personate and Undercover Ops skills in this Morphus.
11-20% Djinn: With origins in Near-Eastern mythology, the 
Djinn have been described as a curious combination of the sub-
stantial and insubstantial and said to be comprised of fire, smoke, 
or mist, and are seldom visible to humans. This Nightbane’s 
Morphus is visible and solid, though it is surrounded by a veil 
of swirling mist, smoke or heat vapors that partially obscure the 
body from the chest down, so at a quick glance, the character 
appears to be fading in and out or looks insubstantial. The rough 
outline of the Nightbane’s body can be discerned through this ob-
scuring haze as it is darker than the surroundings, and the upper 
body and head are usually clearly visible, unless the Nightbane 
wants his face blurred out. The only details that truly stand out, 
however, are eyes that glow like hot coals and which brighten 
or dim with the character’s mood. Bonuses: +1D4 to P.S., +2 to 
P.P., and +4D4 to Spd, has a Natural A.R. of 10, +1 on initiative 
and +10% to Prowl and Tailing skills. Penalties: -2 to M.A., P.E. 
and P.B. attributes, -10% to Prowl, and -30% to Disguise, Imper-
sonate and Undercover Ops skills.
21-30% Dragon/Wyvern/Serpent: Many cultures believe in 
dragons and magical serpents, with stories passed down through 
the ages. Cultures as diverse as the Maya, Aztec and Native 
Americans to Europe, the Norse, to Japan, China and Australia, 
have stories of dragons, wyverns, winged serpents, and similar 
creatures. Dragons have since become the very essence of my-
thology while being popularized in art, fantasy literature, and 
many other mediums. Those Nightbane in awe of the power and 
majesty of fabled dragons may manifest a Morphus that is effec-
tively a miniaturized version of them at 9-12 feet (2.7-3.7 m) in 
length from snout to tip of the tail. Wingspan usually matches or 
exceeds body length by an extra 1D4+2 feet (0.9 to 1.8 m). This 
form weighs anywhere from 500-800 lbs (225 to 360 kg) and can 
fly! The exact style and look of said dragon may vary based on 
the cultural or pop culture influences of the individual.
The Morphus usually has two to six wings, a serpentine tail, 
and a long, flexible neck. The body rests on all fours, though two 
limbs may be arms with fully articulated humanoid hands. The 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
38
digits all end in sharp talons and the long muzzle opens to reveal 
a wide mouth filled with crocodile-like teeth. The hide is tough 
and scaly, with many dragon Nightbane possessing bony plates 
or horns protecting key points such as the head and neck. Cos-
metic details like color, shape of any crest or horns, etc., are left 
to the player and/or G.M. to determine. Some are more humanoid 
in shape and appearance, others are classic four-legged, winged 
dragons in miniature. Bonuses: +1D6x10+20 to base P.P.E. and 
+1 to Spell Strength if a spell caster, +1D6+6 to P.S., +1D6 to 
P.E., +2 Awe/Horror Factor, +3D6+4 to Hit Points, +1D6x10 
S.D.C., Natural A.R. 14, bite attacks do 3D6 damage (double to 
Nightlords and the denizens of the Nightlands). The character 
does not get a breath weapon, but can select the Fire Breather 
Talent (Nightbane® Survival Guide, page 102) at half the nor-
mal cost and double the normal damage to Nightlords and the 
denizens of the Nightlands. The wings provide a flying speed of 
1D4x10+88 (70-90 mph/112 to 144 kph), and have 1D6x10+60 
S.D.C. each, regenerate at the same rate as the Nightbane, but 
will completely grow back in one day if destroyed. Penalties: -2 
to dodge when not airborne. In Morphus form the character is too 
large to fit in ordinary vehicles and may have trouble negotiat-
ing hallways and staircases inside buildings. While in the dragon 
Morphus the Nightbane is -10% on the performance of all skills, 
-30% to Prowl and Swimming, while Acrobatics, Disguise, Gym-
nastics, Impersonation, and Undercover Ops are impossible. All 
magic and enchanted weapons, including Dark Blades, ignore the 
character’s Natural A.R. and inflict full damage. Dragon slaying 
weapons do double damage.
31-40% Gorgon: This Morphus appears to be an interpreta-
tion of the fabled serpent-women of Greek mythology, the most 
well-known being Medusa. However, the Aztec, Indian and other 
cultures also have similar myths about serpentine gods, beings 
and monsters with multiple snake heads or who appeared to be 
part human, part snake, or could command snakes or change from 
serpent to human. This Morphus could represent any of them. 
The Nightbane’s skin is covered in fine scales in shades of green, 
greyish blue, or bronze, some with red or black patterns, the eyes 
golden or green, the tongue forked like a snake’s nestled inside 
a mouth filled with pointed teeth and a pair a fangs, and each 
finger ends in yellowed claws. Of course, the most bizarre and 
frightening aspect of the Gorgon visage is hair replaced by a coil 
of 2D6+10 writhing snakes, each three feet (0.9 m) long and able 
of attack and bite anyone who engages the Nightbane in melee 
combat or comes too close for comfort. All of this makes the 
Gorgon Nightbane as deadly as vipers and they are capable, often 
ruthless, warriors. Bonuses: +2 to the P.S. and P.P. attributes, 
+6D6 S.D.C., Natural A.R. 10, +2 to Horror Factor, claws dam-
age equal to Supernatural P.S. punch damage +3 for claw attacks, 
the Gorgon’s bite does 2D6 damage and has the same venom 
as the snakes (see Snake Attack, below), 2D6+10 snakes are at-
tached to the Nightbane’s head in place of hair. Each snake has 
2D6+12 S.D.C. and will grow back in a single day if destroyed 
(requires a Called Shot to hit per each snake). Attacks from be-
hind are detected by the snakes and conveyed to the Nightbane, 
so surprise attacks are nearly impossible when the crown of ser-
pents is not covered by a hood, hat or veil, and they also add +3 to 
initiative and +2 to parry and dodge. Note: Automatically starts 
with the Gorgon’s Touch Elite Talent (see Nightbane® Survival 
Guide, page 104, or the Talents Appendix in this book) or select 
one extra Talent. Penalties: -1 to I.Q., -2 to M.E., -2 to M.A., and 
-1D4 to the P.B. attribute. Gorgon Nightbane tend to be a bit vain 
and jealous of anyone more attractive than themselves, which can 
cause strife with Barbie and Ken Morphuses, Guardians, etc. Dis-
guise, Impersonation, and Undercover Ops are impossible in this 
Morphus.
Snake Attack (special): 1D4+1 snakes strike at the same tar-
get at a time, each doing 1D4 damage per bite. This ultimately 
provides the Nightbane an extra five attacks per melee round, but 
only against those who come within striking distance (3 feet/0.9 
m). Each snake bite injects a poison that temporarily makes its 
victim turn ashen colored and makes muscles tighten and stiffen, 
which is where the myth of turning people to stone may have 
originated. (Or is it the other way around?) Victims must roll to 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
39
save vs nonlethal poison (16 or greater). A successful save vs 
nonlethal poison means half damage and none of the penalties 
described below.
A failed save reduces the victim’s Spd and attacks per melee 
round by half! Combat bonuses and the performance of skills are 
also reduced by half as the cramping and tight muscles make it 
an effort to move. Duration of the venom is two melee rounds for 
each failed snake bite. Note: Double damage and double the du-
ration of penalties to Night Princes, Nightlords, Hounds, Hound 
Masters, Hunters, and other denizens of the Nightlands.
41-50% Griffin: This Morphus gives the Nightbane the head 
of a hawk or eagle, hands that more resemble the talons of an 
eagle, the mane, fur and tail of an African lion, and the wings 
of an eagle. The wings, chest, and forelegs are plumed while the 
body and hindquarters have short, tan fur. The player can decide 
whether the Morphus retains its humanoid body (common) or 
whether he becomes a four-legged creature (rare); in either case, 
he can speak. The Griffin Morphus is a foot (0.3 m) taller than the 
Nightbane’s Facade, weighs 300 pounds (135 kg),and the most 
common colors are white and dark brown feathers and tan fur, 
though the colors for each are left to the player or G.M.’s imagi-
nation. Note: Many different cultures, from Egyptians to Rus-
sians to Asians and Native Americans, have myths about power-
ful and heroic avian spirits, gods and monsters, be it the winged 
jinn or genie, to the Anzu of Mesopotamia, and many others. This 
manifestation could represent any of them.
Griffins are present in several Eurasian mythologies, in which 
they are often said to be guardians of priceless treasure or divine 
figures, so Nightbane with this Morphus may be particularly pro-
tective or vigilant. They certainly make devastating foes when 
their powerful limbs, razor-sharp beak, slashing talons, and flight 
capabilities are considered. Bonuses: +1D4 to the P.S. attribute, 
+2 to P.P., +4D6 to running speed (flying speed is 1D4x10+70), 
+1D4x10+20 S.D.C., +20% to Prowl skill (in the air or on the 
ground), and +2 to Horror Factor. The wings have 1D4x10+40 
S.D.C. each and regenerate at the same rate as the Nightbane. If a 
wing(s) is destroyed, it will grow back in one day. Nightvision is 
extended to 1,500 feet (457.2 m), the Nightbane has exceptional 
distance vision (can see a rabbit or read a sign two miles/3.2 km 
away), 180 degree peripheral vision, can turn his head 180 de-
grees, is +3 to all Perception Rolls involving sight, +1 on initia-
tive and +2 to dodge in flight. The character can leap 20 feet 
(6.1 m) high or across from a standing position and 40 feet (12.2 
m) with a running start without actually taking flight. Damage 
from the talons is +2D4 in addition to Supernatural P.S. punch 
damage, a beak bite or slash does +1D6 damage in addition to 
Supernatural P.S. punch damage. Diving/swooping attacks inflict 
double damage but count as two attacks. Talon and beak attacks 
do double damage to Nightlords and the denizens of the Night-
lands. Penalties: In Morphus form the taloned hands/forelegs 
make it very difficult to use tools or weapons (-3 to strike, parry 
or disarm) and -20% on the performance of all skills, and Griffins 
are completely unable to swim whether the Morphus is humanoid 
or animal shaped. Griffin Nightbane are often loyal to a fault, 
but can be overprotective and imperious at times. Disguise, Im-
personation, Swimming and similar skills are impossible in this 
Morphus.
51-60% Sphinx: Similar to the Griffin, the mythological 
Sphinx has the body of a lion with a humanoid head and pair of 
feathered wings. The Sphinx Nightbane may have a humanoid 
form and stand erect, but his body resembles that of an African 
lion walking on its hind legs, or the Morphus could look just like 
the mythic creature and walk on all fours in the body of a lion. In 
either case, the head is that of a human, but it looks different than 
the face of the Facade, so the Morphus conceals the character’s 
human Facade identity. Height (or length if animal form) is nine 
feet (2.7 m), with a majestic wingspan of 16-20 feet (4.9 to 6.1 
m). In mythology, the Sphinx is a guardian of knowledge and the 
divine, capable of warding off evil and is associated with wis-
dom, knowledge, and lore-keepers. Normal speaking capabilities. 
Bonuses: +1D4 to I.Q., +2 to the M.E. and M.A. attributes, +1D6 
to P.S., +1D4x10 to running speed (flying speed is 1D6x10+70), 
+2D6 Hit Points, +1D4x10 S.D.C., and +2 to Horror Factor. The 
wings have 1D6x10+40 S.D.C. each and regenerate at the same 
rate as the Nightbane, but will grow back in one day if destroyed. 
+1D4x10 to base P.P.E. and +1 to Spell Strength if a magic user. 
The Sphinx can leap 30 feet (9.1 m) high or across from a stand-
ing position and 60 feet (18.3 m) with a running start without 
actually taking flight. +2D6 damage from claw attacks in addition 
to Supernatural P.S. punch damage; double damage to Nightlords 
and all denizen of the Nightlands. Diving/swooping attacks in-
flict double damage but count as two melee attacks. Penalties: In 
Morphus form, the Nightbane is completely unable to use tools 
or weapons and is too large to fit inside most automobiles, needs 
a mini-van with back seats down, a van, pickup truck and simi-
lar or larger vehicles. Hates confined spaces. Skills that require 
hands are impossible to perform, Disguise and Undercover Ops 
are impossible, and the Sphinx Nightbane is -30% to Swimming. 
They also tend to have a penchant for acquiring and hoarding 
knowledge and secrets that can get them into trouble, and only 
trust those closest to them.
61-70% Unicorn: The body of this Nightbane Morphus a 
beautiful, sleek, light horse like an Arabian or Appaloosa (15 
hands tall) with a single, conical horn in the middle of the horse’s 
forehead measuring 1-2 feet (0.3 to 0.6 m) long. The horn itself 
appears to be made of ivory, pure white marble or a white crys-
tal. The coloring of the fur and mane, hooves, etc., is left to the 
player to decide, but the hair/mane is always in contrast to the 
color of the body fur; which according to most myths is white or 
a light golden color (both a rarity in nature). It is also possible for 
the “unicorn” to have a centaur-like, with the body and legs of a 
horse and the upper body of an incredibly attractive human (+10 
to P.B. attribute, male or female) with long, silky hair down to the 
waist, and the classic Unicorn’s horn protruding from his or her 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
40
forehead. Bonuses: +2D6 to Hit Points, +1D6x10+20 to S.D.C., 
+4D6 to base P.P.E., +1D6 to the M.A. attribute, +1D6 to P.S., 
+1 to P.P. and P.E., +10 to P.B. attribute, and +2 to Awe/Horror 
Factor. +1D6x10+50 to running Spd, and the Nightbane can leap 
10 feet (3 m) high and 20 feet (6.1 m) lengthwise with a running 
start, +10% to Swimming skill, and gains the Auto-Dodge ability 
(use only the bonuses from the R.C.C. and high P.P. attribute). 
Damage: +1D6 damage to kick attacks with front legs, 2D6 dam-
age with back legs, both in addition to equivalent of Supernatural 
P.S. punch damage, and +3D6 damage from a stabbing/impaling 
horn strike or 2D6 damage with a slashing horn attack — triple 
horn damage against Nightlords, Night Princes, all denizens of 
the Nightlands, vampires, demons and all creatures of darkness. 
Penalties: In Morphus form the Nightbane is completely unable 
to use tools or weapons (unless a Unicorn Centaur) and is too 
large to fit inside most conventional vehicles, not even mini-vans 
and pickup trucks, and needs a larger vehicle or horse trailer. 
Moreover, the Unicorn hates confined spaces and does not like 
to let people ride on its back, with the exception of children and 
those who are gentle and innocent. Skills that require hands are 
impossible to perform, Disguise and Undercover Ops are also im-
possible. The Unicorn Nightbane is likely to be the first target of 
Nightlords and their minions, as well as many demons and other 
beings of supernatural evil that hate beauty and seek to destroy 
it. Many Unicorn Nightbane are idealistic dreamers which can 
lead to a certain level of naivety, and risk-taking, especially when 
it comes to helping or defending the innocent and heroic under-
dogs.
71-80% Fairy: This Nightbane is lithe and attractive and 
adorned with semi-transparent gossamer wings that resemble a 
dragonfly or colorful butterfly wings like those of mythical faer-
ies. Whatever the character’s Facade, he or she is beautiful, with 
long, delicate fingers and limbs, and a gracefulness about them. 
The character is 4-6 feet tall (1.2 to 1.8 m; player’s choice) with 
a corresponding weight for a thin, agile human. The wings are 
iridescent or butterfly-like and provide hovering and modest fly-
ing capabilities. Bonuses: +1D6 to M.A., +8 to P.B., and +1D6 
to running speed (flying speed is 1D4x10+20), hovering 1D4 feet 
(0.3 to 1.2 m) above the ground is normal for this Nightbane, 
+3D6 to P.P.E., +1D6 to Hit Points, +5D6 to S.D.C., +2 to all 
Perception Rolls, +2 to dodge, Nightvision is extended to 1,000 
feet (305 m), exceptional vision (can see a rabbit or read a sign 
a mile/1.6 km away), +1 to Awe/Horror Factor, +10% to Ac-
robatics, Dance, Gymnastics, Sing, Prowl and any Wilderness 
skills. Penalties: -10% to Espionage and Rogue skills and any 
skills related to combat or destruction. Skills like Disguise, Im-
personation, Undercover Ops and Swimming are impossible to 
use in Morphus form. Cannot fit inside most vehicles, because 
the wings are too large. Note: Characters with this Morphus are 
playful and often either quite young and innocent or naive and in 
denial about the Nightlords and their Minions, and the horrors in 
the world. They hate ugliness, cruelty, bullies and wickedness.
81-90% Cyclops/Giant: This Nightbane Morphus is that of 
a hulking, brutish man-monster (or giant Amazon-like woman), 
10-12 feet (3 to 3.7 m) tall, muscular, barrel-chested, and with 
one large eye in the center of his forehead. This may not be the 
character’s only eye, it’s just that the other two are small and 
squinty, so they look more like folds on the face rather than eyes. 
Whether a single cyclopean eye or a large “third eye,” the spe-
cial eye provides the abilities to see the invisible and to see in 
darkness. (In the alternative, the eye can be in the back of the 
Nightbane’s head. It has the same sight capabilities and bonuses, 
but also prevents the character from being surprised from attacks 
from behind.) Bonuses: +6 to P.S. and +2 P.E., +2D6 Hit Points 
and +1D6x10+20 S.D.C., Natural A.R. 10, +1D6 damage from 
punches and kicks in addition to Supernatural P.S. punch damage 
due to his strength, size and weight (700 pounds/315 kg), +3 to all 
Perception Rolls, Nightvision is extended to 1,000 feet (305 m), 
exceptional vision (can see a rabbit or read a sign a mile/1.6 km 
away), see the invisible, +2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: Using 
conventional modern weapons/guns and devices like cell phones 
and keyboards are difficult to impossible to use due to the large 
size of the Cyclop’s hands. -2 to dodge, -25% to all skills that 
require a delicate touch and human-sized fingers/hands, -30% to 
Prowl, Acrobatics and Gymnastics, and skills like Disguise, Im-
personation, Tailing and Undercover Ops are impossible to use in 
Morphus form. Clothing must be custom made and the large size 
makes fitting inside most vehicles difficult and uncomfortable to 
impossible. Hates confined spaces. Note: The Cyclops is likely to 
be seen as a brutish warrior or monster, but the reality is that the 
character may be gentle and kind, or timid and shy. The choice 
of a giant, bestial Morphus may be the result of his insecurity or 
fears, or a desire to be taken seriously or to be big and strong so 
as to not to be picked on by bullies.