Unusual Facial Features Table 
Many Nightbane appear completely normal from a distance 
- until one looks them in the face.
01-07% Oversized Carnivorous Mouth: The Nightbane 
has supernaturally strong jaw muscles, enabling them to inflict 
2D6 S.D.C. with a bite! Plus the character can hold on and con­
tinue biting (no attack roll is necessary, inflicts normal bite dam­
age once at the beginning and once at the end of the round until 
dislodged or he lets go; no other combat actions are possible 
while using this attack). Add 1 to Horror Factor.
08-15% Glowing Eyes: The Nightbane's eyes glow with 
unnatural light, so bright that they can faintly illuminate a dark 
102 
area! Normal sunglasses will not be able to hide the glowing 
eyes, but mirror shades will. The Nightbane has enhanced 
nightvision (able to see in total darkness; range 2000 feet/610 
m). Add 1 to Horror Factor.
16-22% Cyclops: The character only has one large eye in the 
middle of his forehead; perfect 20/20 vision. Add 2 to the Horror 
Factor.
23-30% Misshapen Facial Features: Some possibilities: The 
eyes are in the wrong place, the nose is flat or missing, the 
mouth is where the eyes should be and vice-versa, the creature 
has more than one mouth, and other bizarre features. Add ID4 to 
Horror Factor.
31-38% Extra Eyes: The Nightbane has ID4 additional 
eyes (roll or choose from 1 -6 total eyes). They are arranged in 
two or three rows, and they can be human-sized or slightly 
smaller. Add +2 to perception rolls involving sight and + ID4 to 
Horror Factor.
39-46% Sharp teeth: The Nightbane has long fang-like 
teeth. The character's bite inflicts 3D6 damage. Add 2 to Horror 
Factor whenever the teeth are displayed (in a smile, for exam­
ple).
47-55% Skull Face: The character's head is a fleshless skull 
(players may opt to let hair grow on the skull, or leave it bare). 
The skeletal head is sometimes surrounded by a nimbus of light 
or flames ( 1-30%), is completely fleshless and bare and gro­
tesquely protrudes from a flesh neck (3 1 -60%), looks more like a 
bony helmet or mask than a real head (61 -90%), or has a differ­
ent, unusual look (91 -00%, the player may roll again for unusual 
facial features that further deform the skull, like small horns, and 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
additional eye sockets); roll or pick one. Add 2D4 to S.D.C., and 
1D4 to Horror Factor.
56-62% Small Horns: The Nightbane has small, vestigial 
horns, typically similar to a goat's or a ram's. The horns can be 
disguised with a hat or other head covering. Head butt does 1D6 
S.D.C. in addition to normal punch damage. Add 1 to Horror 
Factor.
63-70% Large Horns: Often similar to a ram's or deer's. The 
horns are so large that it is almost impossible to hide them. A 
head-butt inflicts 3D6 S.D.C. in addition to normal punch dam­
age. Add 2 to Horror Factor.
71-78% Facial Tentacles: Writhing tentacles protrude from 
the face of the Nightbane! They can be situated anywhere in the 
the face; some examples include the chin for a "living beard" 
look, between the nose and mouth for a Lovecraftian appear­
ance, or instead of hair for a Medusa-like look. Add 1D6 to 
S.D.C. and 1D4 to Horror Factor.
79-85% No Face! :  The Nightbane has a perfectly smooth 
face; no eyes, mouth, or nose are visible. The creature can speak, 
but the voice seems to be coming from inside the smooth sur­
face, and may have an inhuman quality, or simply sound muf­
fled; player's choice. The lack of eyes does not impair the 
Nightbane's senses; it can see, smell and hear perfectly. To eat, 
food is seemingly pushed through the skin, like a soft mem­
brane, where the mouth should be. Add 1D4 to Horror Factor.
86-90% Biomechanical: Roll on the Biomechanical Table, 
but only apply the results to the face/head of the Nightbane. The 
rest of the body may be normal or have completely different 
characteristics.
91-95% Alien Features: The Nightbane looks inhuman and 
alien. The head may be oversized with large (or small), black, al­
mond shaped eyes, a tiny nose or nose holes, no facial hair, dark 
or pale complexion and other inhuman features (fangs, skin pat­
terns, horns, etc.). Add 2 points to Horror Factor.
96-98% Two: Roll twice (ignore and reroll any result of 96% 
or higher) and try to combine the result. Some results might not 
make much sense at first, players are invited to use their imagi­
nation. For example: A player rolls for both Cyclops and No 
Face! In that case, the character has one central eye, and no other 
facial features. Or maybe he rolls Cyclops and Multiple Eyes in­
stead; simply place one large eye in the middle, surrounded by 
smaller ones.
99-00% Three: As above, but roll three times. 