Victim Table
Most of these Nightbane were (or perceive themselves as
having been) victims of circumstance, abused, tortured, neglected or unwanted, or they may simply feel helpless or vulnerable. Such Morphuses generally appear to be frail and weak,
whether they really are or not.
01-09% Horribly Burned: The Morphus is a humanoid
with 90% of the body scarred and covered in third-degree burns.
The face looks as if it was melted, there is only a hole for a nose
and there are no lips, ears, or facial hair. Bonuses: +1D6x10+6
S.D.C., +2 to P.E., fire and heat resistant (half damage), +1D4
to Horror Factor. Penalties: -2 from M.A., -1D4 from P.B.
10-18% Filthy: The Morphus of an emaciated human covered with filth – dirt, grime, old food, and dried blood. The hair
is matted and has stuff sticking out of it, and any clothing is
99
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
similarly filthy, crumpled and unkempt. Bonuses: +2 to P.E., +1
to M.E., +1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -1D4 to P.B. and -25%
to all skills involving appearance and performance, including
Disguise and Seduction.
19-27% Broken Body: The Morphus is of someone so badly
beaten that his hands are gnarled, limbs bent and twisted, and
the spine so damaged and deformed that the Nightbane stands
hunched over, has a short, thick neck, and walks with a severe
and noticeable limp. Bonuses: +4D4x10 to S.D.C., +1D4 to
P.S., +1D4 to I.Q., M.E. and M.A., +1 on Perception Rolls, +5%
on all R.C.C. Skills, and +2 to Horror Factor; the body may be
broken, but the mind is as sharp as ever. Penalties: Reduce
speed by 30%, -1 on initiative, leaping height and distance is
half, -20% to any and all Physical skills, and Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible.
28-36% Beaten: The Morphus is that of someone covered in
scars and bruises, the fingers are gnarled from having been broken many times, and limbs are crooked and lumpy from where
broken bones have knitted back together improperly. Any clothing is likely to be torn or tattered. Bonuses: +3D6+6 Hit Points,
+2 to P.E. and +1 to dodge. Highly resistant to pain and interrogation (interrogators suffer a -35% skill penalty against this
character), suffers half the normal penalties for physical pain,
any spell or power that causes pain has absolutely no effect, and
the ‘Bane heals at double the normal rate. Penalties: Reduces
Spd by 1D4x10%, -2 from P.B., -1 from P.E., and -5% to Prowl,
Disguise and Undercover Ops.
37-45% Frail: The Morphus is an emaciated human, all skin
and bones, frail and starving. Most opponents will underestimate the ‘Bane in combat, discounting him as a real threat. Bonuses: +1 on initiative, +1 attack per melee round, impervious
to spoiled and rotten food, +1 to save vs poison and drugs, and
+2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: Reduce weight by 50%, S.D.C.
by 20%, -2 from P.E., -1D6 from P.S. and Spd, and -25% to
Disguise and Undercover Ops.
46-54% Escaped Captivity: This Morphus is of someone
with long dirty hair, a few noticeable scars, and a dirt smudged
face. Manacles are clamped around the wrists and ankles, and a
1D4 foot (0.3 to 1.2 m) length of heavy iron chains hangs from
the manacles. The manacles cannot be removed, and the
Nightbane doesn’t even try. Instead, he uses the chain lengths
around his wrists as weapons (a chain whip attack does 2D6
damage plus Supernatural P.S. punch damage). Bonuses: +6D6
S.D.C., +2 to P.S., +1 to strike, parry and entangle with the
chains, +5% to Climbing, and is impervious to the magic of
Night Princes and Nightlords. Penalties: -30% to Prowl and
Swimming, -15% to all skills involving appearance, including
Disguise and Seduction, and the character has a phobia (terror)
of being chained up again, or locked in a confined space or jail
cell.
55-63% Hollow Eyes: Also called the thousand yard stare,
the Nightbane’s eyes are vacant. It’s as though they are staring
at something off in the distance even when looking directly at
someone or something, which most people find quite unnerving.
Bonuses: Hawk-like vision, enabling him to read small signs or
identify a face 2 miles (3.2 km) away, doubles the range of him
night vision, and +1 to Horror Factor.
64-73% Child: The Nightbane appears to be a youngster
1D6+9 years old. Height and weight are reduced appropriately.
Except for any injuries from other Morphus features, he appears
healthy. However, voice is weak and the character is timid and
shy until attacked or provoked. On the good side, people usually
trust the character, but on the down side they treat him like a
child, even if they know he is an adult. Bonuses: +1 on initiative, +3 to M.A., +1 to P.B., +4 to Spd, +3D6 to P.P.E. base.
Penalties: Reduce Spd, P.S. and P.P by 10%, and needs children’s clothes.
74-82% Dead Man Walking: The Morphus is someone who
appears to be an animated corpse of a murder victim. He is
splattered or covered in blood, obvious wounds (bullet holes,
cuts, crushed skull, etc.), and when applicable, the murder
weapon is apparent (a hammer or hatchet stuck in the skull,
noose around the neck, a knife in the belly or neck, etc.). Bonuses: +5D6+5 S.D.C., +1 to Perception Rolls, resistant to the
magic of the Nightlords (half damage, duration and effect), +1
to Horror Factor, and +10% to all skills involving surveillance,
tailing and investigation. Penalties: Obsessed with solving and
stopping murders, injury cannot be easily concealed and the
murder weapon, if present, cannot be removed, -40% to Disguise and Undercover Ops.
83-91% Faceless Victim: A Morphus without a face – no
eyes, mouth or any facial features (but can still see and talk),
just a blank face. There are also ligature marks around the neck,
wrists and ankles. This Morphus represents the multitude of
people who simply vanish and victims of crimes that are never
solved, as well as so-called victimless crimes. Tends to be an
avenger and protector of the innocent. Bonuses: +1D4x10 Hit
Points, +1D6 to P.S., +1 attack per melee round (+2 against the
100
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Nightlords and Night Princes), fatigues at half the usual rate,
and +1 to save vs mind control and illusions. Penalties: Reduce
I.Q. and S.D.C. by 10%.
92-00% Face of Comedy and Tragedy: This Morphus has
two faces made of the porcelain masks used to represent film
and entertainment. One is the face, one is the back of his head,
but their position (front or back) can reverse depending on the
mood of the Nightbane or the situation he faces. The character’s
back is covered in blood and there will be a gaping wound or a
knife sticking in it. This Morphus represents the victims of
treachery, lies, deception and betrayal. Bonuses: +1D4x10
S.D.C., +2 to M.A. and M.E., +1 to Perception Rolls, +3 to Perception Rolls involving lies, deception, and traps, impervious to
Seduction, impervious to magic and psionic charms, automatically gets the skill I.D. Undercover Agent at 90%, and +1 to
Horror Factor. Penalties: Distrusts strangers, the Guardians, and
authority figures, hates the Nightlords, and Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible.
New Talents
Talent Manifestations
Talents
are
unlike
any
other
ability
in
Palladium’s
role-playing games. While powered by P.P.E., they are not
spells. Nor are they psionics or super abilities. Talents are more
akin to tangible expressions of will on the behalf of the
Nightbane (and Shadow Mages).
As such, they tend to manifest in different ways for different
Nightbane. What this means for players and Game Masters is
that the mechanics of the powers are always the same, but visually they can be quite different.
For example, Stony Lonesome, a Nightbane with rock-like
skin covered in razor wire, has the Darkwhip Talent. So does
Crosswire, a Nightbane with a camera-like head and a robotic
body. For both individuals, the Darkwhip Talent works the same
way. However, Stony’s Darkwhip comes out as a long, deadly
strand of barbed wire, and Crosswire’s Darkwhip flashes out as
a bundle of seemingly animated electrical wiring. Such variations and effects do not add damage or functionality, but reflect
aspects of personality and individuality to each Nightbane character.
It also means that other Nightbane sometimes have to guess
at what Talents a Nightbane is using. When you see a holographic image overlay Crosswire’s Facade, making him look
like someone else, did he just use Reshape Facade or is it something else? The observers are not 100% certain.
And there’s the fun.
A group of player characters may see Stony embrace with a
badly injured woman, appearing to vomit liquid concrete into
her. He may be using Infectious Control or he might be using
the Sharing the Flesh ability. If they attack and take the woman
from him, they may save her life . . . or they may prevent him
from healing her, and the shock could cause her to die.
Likewise, when special lenses drop over Crosswire’s camera-like eyes, did he just use See Truth or is he peering at that
mirror on the wall and using Mirror Sight?
The manifestation of Talents usually have some connection
or similarity to the Nightbane’s Morphus or personality. For example, Darksong may be a long, blood-curdling howl for a
Nightbane with wolf-like attributes in Morphus, but a strange,
unearthly choir begins singing whenever a Nightbane with an
Angel Morphus uses the same Talent. Gloppy the Kid, a
Nightbane with a plasmoid, shapeless body, oozes into his computer through the disc drive or DVD-ROM slot when he uses
Lightning Rider, but Crosswire streams into his screen as a series of glowing “1”s and “0”s.
The only limit to the different Talent manifestations is your
imagination. Just remember, the manifestations are only cosmetic visual variations. They do NOT provide any tangible benefit to the actual Talent; the Talent always functions the same,
does the same damage and has the same effect, duration and
range, it may just look different. Note: Other Talents are described in the Nightbane® RPG and Between the Shadows™.
New Nightbane Talents
Air Swim
Fire Breather
Heal Facade
Severance
Shadow Pockets
Shadow Weapon
Speed Darkling
Note: Also see Elite Talents, which follow.
101
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Air Swim
This Talent enables the Nightbane to swim through the air the
same as if it were water. A Nightbane does not suffer penalties
from drying out or breathing air when using this Talent when his
Morphus is of an aquatic nature.
Limitations: Maximum height above the ground is 15 feet
(4.6 m) per level of experience. Speed is the same as
Swimming.
Cost: 7 P.P.E. to permanently acquire; 5 P.P.E. to activate
for the first minute and 2 P.P.E. for each minute after that.
Fire Breather
The Nightbane is able to exhale a powerful jet of flames,
similar to that of a flamethrower. The gout of fire inflicts 5D6
damage to anything caught in its path, unless stopped by a wall,
vehicle or large object (including a large Nightbane), otherwise
the flames continue to their full range, burning everything they
touch. The ‘Bane is impervious to his own flames, as well as
natural fire and heat when this Talent is active (which is only
the one melee round the fire breath is used). However, the character takes full damage from magical fire or the breath of other
Nightbane.
Limitations: Can only be used in Morphus form and only
once per melee round (15 seconds), but counts as an extra melee
attack. Range: 30 feet (9.1 m) +5 feet (1.5 m) per experience
level.
Cost: 8 P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 10 P.P.E. per melee
round of use.
Heal Facade
This Talent enables a Nightbane to extend the superhuman
regeneration rate of his Morphus to his Facade for a limited
amount of time. When activated, the Facade form heals 1D6+4
S.D.C./Hit Points per melee round!
Limitations: Healing is applicable only to the Facade. Duration: One melee round per level of experience.
Cost: 10 P.P.E. to permanently acquire; 10 P.P.E. to activate
for the first melee round, and 5 P.P.E. for each subsequent melee round.
Severance
The Nightbane is able to temporarily shut down his supernatural aura, making himself undetectable to other Nightbane, psychics, mages and supernatural creatures who can sense and track
the supernatural aura of Nightbane and other paranormal beings.
It can prevent detection by Hounds, Hunters, Great Hounds, and
Soul Trackers, as well as defeat the “Sense Nightbane” ability
inherent to other Nightbane. Furthermore, it makes the character’s aura appear to be that of an ordinary human.
However, using the Severance Talent comes at a cost. As
long as the Severance is in place and the supernatural aura is
suppressed, the ‘Bane can not use any of his other Talents nor
cast any magic if the Nightbane is a Mystic or Sorcerer. Furthermore, the Nightbane feels cut off from the metaphysical world,
and the sensation of alienation can be unsettling, particularly for
Mystics, who tend to feel the most attuned with the supernatural
world.
Limitations: Not available until 4th level. Range: Self, only.
Duration: One minute (4 melee rounds) per level of experience.
Cost: 15 P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 10 P.P.E. to activate.
Shadow Pockets
This Talent enables the Nightbane to access a mini-dimension suitable for storing small objects. Though it can be used in
both the Facade and Morphus, P.P.E. must be spent for each
item brought into or out of the pocket. The Shadow Pocket may
hold up to five pounds (2.25 kg) per level of experience, but no
single object may weigh more than 15 pounds (6.75 kg). Placing
an object into or retrieving an object from the pocket takes one
melee attack/action.
There are many different ways this Talent can appear to function. One is for the Nightbane to actually reach into the pockets
of his clothing and another is to put his hand into a shadow and
seem to remove an item from it like a sleight of hand trick.
While inside the pocket, objects are held in a state of limbo,
and can only be brought back by the Nightbane who put them
there. The objects can remain in the pocket indefinitely without
ill effect, even if the Nightbane is sleeping or knocked unconscious. If the character is killed in Morphus form, his Morphus
vanishes and all the objects in the Shadow Pocket appear where
he last stood. If the character is killed in Facade form, the objects in the Shadow Pocket remain in the shadow dimension and
are presumably lost forever.
Limitations: Not available until 5th level.
Cost: 16 P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 8 P.P.E. to place or
retrieve one object.
Shadow Weapon
A Nightbane with this Talent can create a melee weapon
made of dark energy. The weapon can look like any type of one
piece melee weapon, such as a sword, knife, axe, pole arm, pick,
mace, morning star, etc., but not bows or modern weapons with
moving parts. The character can only create one type of weapon
and must decide what the weapon will look like when he first
gains this Talent. From that point forward, his Shadow Weapon
is always the same. Regardless of the weapon type it inflicts
102D6 damage +1D6 additional damage at levels 6, 9, 12 and 15 –
and does 50% greater damage to Night Princes and Nightlords!
W.P. skill bonuses are applicable if the Shadow Weapon fits the
Weapon Proficiency. The weapon is substantial and can be used
to parry, but can NOT be thrown; the weapon disappears if it
leaves the Nightbane’s hands.
Limitations: Usable in Morphus form only; not available until 3rd level.
Cost: 15 P.P.E. to acquire permanently. 10 P.P.E. to activate
for the first melee round and 5 P.P.E. for each melee round of
subsequent use.
Speed Darkling
This Talent gives the Nightbane incredible speed. Take the
Spd attribute number x10 mph (16 km). Thus if the character
has a Spd of 9, he can now run 90 mph (144 km), if he had a
Spd of 96 he can now run 960 mph, and so on. Speed Bonuses:
+1 attack per melee, +1 on initiative, +4 to automatic dodge (the
act of dodging does not use up a melee attack/action). Speed
Penalty: When the duration of the enhanced speed ends, the
character feels spent, his normal Spd is half, and he is -1 attack
per melee, no initiative (is the last to attack) and is -2 to strike,
parry and dodge for 1D6 melee rounds.
Limitations: Usable only in Morphus form and lasts for one
minute per level of experience.
Cost: 20 P.P.E. to permanently acquire it; 15 P.P.E. per melee to activate for the first minute and 5 P.P.E. for each minute
of additional use.
New Elite Talents
A Face in the Crowd
Abduction
Commanding Presence
Forbidding Woods
Gorgon’s Touch
Guardian Angel
Kill Switch
Lend a Hand
Nightshade
Spelljack
The Taint
True Reflection
Vicious Cycle
Voice of the Beast
Zombie Master
A Face in the Crowd
This powerful and useful Talent enables the Nightbane to
temporarily conceal his inhuman appearance under the guise of
a very average looking human being. The specific appearance of
the human disguise automatically varies to fit the situation – i.e.
attire will match the occasion, sex is that of the Nightbane, ethnicity mimics the local population, etc. – which also prevents
the ‘Bane from being recognized from use to use. When this
Talent is in effect, the Nightbane temporarily loses all Morphus
abilities (flight, weapon limbs, claws, horns, and Horror Factor).
However, his attributes, P.P.E., S.D.C., Hit Points, and the like
remain unchanged. Physical Beauty of the false appearance is
1D4+8.
Prerequisites: At least one monstrous or alien trait/feature
from any appropriate table. This talent will not work on “Kens”
and “Barbies” or other attractive or completely human looking
Nightbane.
Limitations: Can be used only in Morphus form and not
available until 4th level. The Talent does not mask the supernatural nature/aura of the Nightbane, meaning beings like Hounds
and Hunters will recognize them for what they really are and are
easily able to hunt those using this Talent!
Cost: 15 P.P.E. to permanently acquire; 10 P.P.E. to activate
plus 5 for each minute of continued duration.
Abduction
Upon the activation of this Talent, a single target is whisked
away by dark energies to a limbo-like pocket dimension. These
energies can take the shape of a swirling vortex, sweeping portal, or even a beam of darkness that strikes the target from
above. No harm comes to the target, but unless they can
dimensionally teleport they are stuck in limbo until the Talent’s
duration expires.
Prerequisites: One or more characteristics from the Alien