Snake Table
A traditional subject of fear and fascination, the snake is a 
common motif found among the Nightbane. Snakes are symbols 
of temptation, hunting, and subtlety. Cobra-based shapes are often found among Nightbane with leadership qualities or ambition. 
All snake Nightbane instinctively know how to swim at a base 
proficiency of 55% and climb at 40% (unless stated otherwise). In 
most cases, Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible.
01-15% Full Snake Form: The character’s Morphus has the 
shape of a giant snake (at least six feet/1.8 m in length; typically 
take the height of the Nightbane’s Facade and add 1D6 feet/0.3 
to 1.8 m to it). Bonuses: +6 to P.S., +3 to P.E., +2 to P.P. and 
+2D6x10 to S.D.C. The snake form has a base Climbing skill 
of 60% (or add +20% to the character’s current Climbing skill, 
whichever is greater; applicable in Morphus form only) and +3 
to Horror Factor.
If the Morphus is that of a poisonous serpent (asp, cobra, rattlesnake, viper, etc.), its bite inflicts 2D6 S.D.C. plus venom does 
6D6 damage (or 3D6 if a successful save versus lethal poison is 
made). Add another +1 to Horror Factor if poisonous.
A constrictor snake has all the base abilities of the Wrestling 
skill, plus it can jab with its head or coil from its body to do the 
equivalent of punch damage. Crushing/constricting attacks do 
double the character’s normal punch damage plus P.S. bonuses. 
Each act of constriction does damage and counts as one melee 
attack.
16-30% Limbed Snake: The Nightbane has a pair of scaly, 
human-like arms, hands and legs stemming from a long, snakelike body. The basic form remains that of a snake, with an overlong “neck” and a snake’s head. The snake-man’s “torso” can 
bend and twist with the full flexibility of a serpent and all limbs 
are double-jointed and ambidextrous. Bonuses: Add one attack 
per melee round, +4 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +2 to P.P., +2D4x10 to 
S.D.C., 1D6 to Horror Factor; +15% to the Climbing skill if the 
character possesses it, otherwise base ability applies.
If the Morphus is that of a poisonous serpent, its bite inflicts 
2D6 S.D.C. plus venom does 4D6 damage (or 2D6 if a successful 
save versus lethal poison is made).
A constrictor snake has all the base abilities of the Wrestling 
skill, plus it can jab with its head or coil from its body to do the 
equivalent of punch damage. Crushing/constricting attacks do 
double the character’s normal punch damage plus P.S. bonuses. 
Each act of constriction does damage and counts as one melee 
attack.
31-50% Humanoid Snake: The character has the basic build 
and shape of a human being, but the skin is covered by colorful scales, the head and neck are those of a snake, and it has a 
long, prehensile tail. In addition to the sharp fangs of a snake, 
the Nightbane also has sharp claws on his hands and feet that 
can inflict an additional 1D6 damage from punches/claw strikes 
and kicks.The bite inflicts 2D6 S.D.C., and if a poisonous variety, will inject a venom doing 3D6 damage (reduced to 1D6 on a 
successful save versus lethal poison). The tail can be used to hit, 
hold and carry objects or as an aid in climbing (add +10% to the 
Climbing skill). Bonuses: Add one attack per melee round from 
prehensile tail, +3 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +1 to P.P., and +1D6x10 to 
S.D.C. Add 1D4+1 to Horror Factor.
51-70% Scaly Skin: A normal human body and features except for the scale-covered skin and eyes that are snake-like in 
appearance. Add 1D6x10 S.D.C. Add 1D4 to Horror Factor.
71-85% Half-Man, Half-Snake: A scale-covered human 
torso with arms and hands, a human head tops and a long snakelike lower body and tail. This Nightbane has no legs, and must 
crawl or climb using his/her lower body. The upper torso can 
bend and twist with the full flexibility of a serpent and all limbs 
are double jointed and ambidextrous. Bonuses: Add one attack 
per melee round, +4 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +3 to P.P. and +1D6x10 
+10 to S.D.C. Add +20% to the climbing skill if the character 
possesses it.
If the Morphus is that of a poisonous serpent, its bite inflicts 
2D6 S.D.C. plus venom does 4D6 damage (or 2D6 if a successful 
save versus lethal poison is made). Add 1D6 to Horror Factor.
A constrictor snake has all the base abilities of the wrestling 
skill, plus it can jab with its head or coil from its body to do the 
equivalent of punch damage. Crushing/constricting attacks do 
double the character’s normal punch damage plus P.S. bonuses. 
Each act of constriction does damage and counts as one melee 
attack.
86-00% Snake’s Head: The Nightbane has a normal human 
body, topped by a giant snake’s head! Bite inflicts 3D6, plus if 
poisonous, will do an additional 3D6 damage (1D6 if a successful 
save versus lethal poison is made). Add 2D6 to S.D.C., and 1D4 
to Horror Factor.