Modern Soldier Table share 
much in common with those of the Ancient Warrior Table, except 
rather than identifying with knights, samurai, and other warriors 
of a bygone era, the Nightbane feels closer to the modern day 
equivalents. The individual may come from a military family, be 
a trained soldier himself, or have always wanted to serve in the 
armed forces, or always found the military, especially their weap-
ons, vehicles and gear, fascinating and appealing.
Nightbane with a Morphus based on the Modern Soldier table 
are not necessarily more aggressive or warlike than the average 
Nightbane (unless you want them to be), but often prove to be 
slightly more resilient, with a head for modern military strategies 
and tactics. Weapons, helmets, armor and gas mask may be Bio-
mechanical and a living part of the Nightbane’s Morphus inte-
grated into his physical body, head, arms, and so on. Bonus Note: 
Therefore, all Nightbane with at least one Modern Soldier feature 
gets an additional +1 to save vs Horror Factor, and +1 to Percep-
tion Rolls to recognize potential ambushes and booby-traps, as 
well as military weapons and explosive devices.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Body Armor: This ‘Bane is always wearing a mod-
ern body armor of some form. Regardless of the style, it is a full 
suit of combat armor complete with a helmet. While it looks like 
the genuine article, complete with zippers and other fasteners, 
the armor is unable to be removed as it is part of the Morphus. 
The coloring is typically a matte black, dark grey, desert brown 
or some kind of camouflage pattern and may have multiple pock-
ets and fasteners to store equipment. Bonuses: Increase the base 
Natural A.R. to 1D4+10, add 1D6x10+70 to S.D.C., and blunt at-
tacks and explosions do half damage. Penalties: -1 to the P.E. at-
tribute and -1D4 to Spd, -5% to skills like Acrobatics, Climbing, 
Gymnastics, Prowl, Swimming, Disguise and Undercover Ops. 
The armor provides no protection against damage from disease, 
gas attacks, possession, spells, Talents, magic weapons, or other 
supernatural powers (which ignore the armor’s S.D.C. entirely).
11-20% Camouflage: This character’s Morphus form is 
dressed from head to toe in camouflage clothing. This may be 
as simple as a set of modern “digital camo” fatigues and grease 
paint to a full-fledged ghillie suit that incorporates local foliage. 
Biomechanical Nightbane might have a camouflage paint job or 
cargo netting. Whatever form the camouflage takes, it alters ev-
ery time he changes to Morphus to match the surrounding en-
vironment and/or the psyche of the Nightbane. Bonuses: +4D6 
to S.D.C., +25% to the Camouflage skill, and +10% to Prowl 
and Tailing skills. Given 1D4 minutes and suitable materials, the 
Nightbane can prepare a personal hiding spot that is extremely 
difficult to detect (Perception Roll of 1D4+13 needed to spot the 
character). -20% to opponents’ ability to Detect Concealment, 
Detect Ambush, Tailing, or Tracking rolls when trying to locate 
this Nightbane (bonus does not apply if other people are with the 
‘Bane). Gets automatic first initiative when ambushing an oppo-
nent from a hiding place. Penalties: -1D4 to Spd, -1 on initiative 
when not ambushing opponents, and -5% to skills like Disguise, 
Impersonation, and Undercover Ops.
21-30% Dress Uniform: Dress uniforms are meant for for-
mal occasions such as military ceremonies rather than combat. 
Such clothing is typically replete with patches, medals, and other 
such ornamentation designed to look striking and impressive. 
This Morphus is always decked-out in such military finery which 
gives him an aura of authority. It may also make him look out of 
place. This uniform can be from any military organization that 
has ever existed or a fictional one like in Star Trek. Whatever 
the case, it is sure to attract attention. Bonuses: +2 to M.A., +1 
to M.E., +3D6+10 to S.D.C., +2 to Awe/Horror Factor, and the 
Nightbane gains one Modern Weapon Proficiency of choice, but 
it can only be used while in Morphus form. Penalties: Such uni-
forms tend to be quite conspicuous; -10% to Prowl, and skills 
like Disguise, Impersonation and Undercover Ops are impossible 
unless impersonating a military officer in full regalia.
31-40% Gas Mask: Like the Body Armor feature, the gas 
mask is part of the Nightbane’s Morphus and probably perma-
nently attached to his face (Biomechanical or cybernetic). It can 
be any style of gas mask from WWI to modern day equivalents. 
This protective device was invented to shield and protect the 
wearer from chemical weapons on the battlefield, but this one 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
54
is equally useful against chemical fumes, tear gas, gas attacks of 
all kinds and even airborne pathogens. Bonuses: +2D6 to S.D.C. 
and +1 to Horror Factor. While in Morphus form the Nightbane is 
immune to any airborne chemicals, gas attacks, fumes, stench or 
disease that is not magical in nature. Even when it is magical, the 
character is +4 to save against its effects. Nuclear radiation is also 
ineffective against this Nightbane and will not even irradiate per-
sonal equipment kept on the character’s person. Penalties: -1 on 
Perception Rolls, -1D4 to M.A. and P.B. attributes, voice is a bit 
muffled, -10% to all Communications skills, -60% to Disguise, 
Seduction and Undercover Ops.
41-50% Medic and First Aid: This Morphus is a combat 
medic, which means a pair of surgical gloves and surgical mask 
covering the mouth and nose are likely to be part of it, along 
with a medium-sized kit of field medical supplies. Blood pres-
sure device, stethoscope, thermometer for taking temperature, 
pen flashlight, various sizes of bandages, rolls of bandages, tubes 
of antiseptic, quick-clotting agent, needle and thread, bottle of 
aspirin, pen and notepad, and various other useful medical items. 
However, the bag/box/kit seems too small for everything that the 
Nightbane can remove from it to help people. In truth, the charac-
ter thinks of what is needed, reaches into the kit, and retrieves the 
supplies he was thinking of (within reason and only as it applies 
to first aid situations and healing, not a gun or cell phone or large 
equipment like an EKG machine). All conjured supplies should 
be basic medical supplies that you would expect to find in a large, 
well-equipped first aid kit. No rare and expensive drugs, no nar-
cotics, no fancy medical devices. Also, this feature does NOT 
automatically create the right tool for the job. The Nightbane 
must visualize what is to be produced and spend one P.P.E. for 
each item (a pack of tongue depressors or band aids would still 
count as one item). If the Nightbane Medic has any stigmata, it is 
likely to be bullet holes in his body or limbs that never heal and 
regularly ooze blood. Likewise, this morphus may have bandages 
covering his head or face, even though he is the medic. Bonuses: 
+1 to M.E. and P.E. attributes, +2 to pull punch and disarm, and 
+20% to the First Aid, Paramedic, or Medical Doctor skills and 
with an expenditure of 6 P.P.E. he has a healing touch that stops 
bleed, causes open wound to begin to heal, start any heart that has 
stopped, and instantly restores 4D6 Hit Points or S.D.C.! Penal-
ties: -1D6+6 from the permanent P.P.E. base and -4 to damage 
from this character’s melee attacks.
51-60% Night Hunter/Nightvision Goggles: Though this 
feature may seem redundant given the Nightbane’s natural night-
vision, this permanent fixture increases range to 3,000 feet (914 
m) and enables him to see in magical darkness and shadows at 
half the usual range without need of a saving throw. Bonuses: 
+2D6 to S.D.C., +2 to all Perception Rolls, never afraid of the 
dark, impervious to even magical blindness and his punches, 
kicks and melee attacks with a handheld weapon do double dam-
age to Shadow creatures, Nightlords and all creatures from the 
Nightlands! Penalties: -2D4 from permanent P.P.E. base, dis-
likes bright lights/sunlight, and -3 on Perception Rolls and -5% 
on all skill performance in well-lit areas and in daylight.
61-70% Field Radio: The Nightbane has a military-grade 
field radio and/or satellite phone on hand at all times while in 
Morphus form, or a cybernetic equivalent. This device rang-
es from the size of a large cell phone to the bulky, WWII era, 
backpack units. This provides the Nightbane with a 50 mile (80 
km) radius of radio communications that can only be jammed by 
magical means like the Anti-Magic Cloud or Sanctum spell. Bo-
nuses: +4D6 to S.D.C., automatically gets the Radio: Basic and 
Cryptography skills at 80% (or +20% whichever is greater) while 
in Morphus form; +10% to any other Communications skills the 
character may possess. Double the range and halve the cost of us-
ing the Operator Talent if possessed by this Nightbane. Also dou-
ble the range in the Nightlands. Penalties: -2D4 base P.P.E., and 
electrical attacks deal an additional 50% damage to the character.
71-80% Personal Weaponry: The Nightbane’s Morphus 
may have a bit of a machine-like appearance and certainly wears 
a combat helmet and fatigues. Select one weapon from each of 
the following lists. These weapons always appear on the char-
acter when the Morphus form is assumed, with firearms fully 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
55
loaded and with spare ammunition. Expended rounds are replen-
ished every 24 hours, but additional store-bought commercial 
rounds (or stolen ordnance) of the same caliber may be provided 
by the character. Note that these may be hard to come by, es-
pecially high-damage rounds of military ordnance. All weapons 
have standard features common to that type (e.g. assault rifles 
and machine-guns can fire bursts, sniper rifles have long-range 
scopes, etc.), and may be Biomechanical, meaning they many be 
built into the Nightbane’s body or limbs. Bonuses: +1D6 to Spd 
attribute, +6D6 S.D.C., and while in Morphus, the Nightbane has 
a bonus of +2 to strike and +1 to parry with any weapons from 
this feature, and all ch weapons do an extra +2D6 damage against 
the Nightlords, their demonic minions and all denizens of the 
Nightlands. Penalties: -2D6+6 from the permanent P.P.E. base, 
and -5% on the performance of all skills except W.P.s, Military, 
Physical and Espionage skills.
Primary Weapon
Light Assault Rifle: 4D6 damage with a 1,969 foot (600 m) 
range and three 50 round clips.
Heavy Assault Rifle: 5D6 damage with a 1,640 foot (500 m) 
range and three 30 round clips.
Light Machine-Gun: 6D6 damage with a 3,280 foot (1,000 
m) range and a single 100 round belt.
Sniper Rifle: 5D6 damage with a 5,280 foot (1,609 m) range 
and three 10 round clips.
Shotgun: 4D6 damage with a 200 foot (61 m) range and a 7 
round capacity plus two full reloads.
Submachine-Gun: 3D6 damage with a 656 foot (200 m) 
range and three 30 round clips.
Secondary Weapon/Side Arm
Light Pistol: 3D6 damage with a 200 foot (61 m) range and 
three 15 round clips.
Heavy Pistol: 4D6 damage with a 160 foot (48.8 m) range and 
three 9 round clips.
Machine-Pistol: 2D6 damage with a 160 foot (48.8 m) range 
and three 20 round clips.
Grenades (x3): Hand thrown or rifle-launched, deal 1D6x10 
damage to a 15 foot (4.6 m) radius.
Survival Knife or Small Melee Weapon: Likely a knife or 
bayonet, deals 1D6 damage, for melee combat and may retract 
from a wrist or forearm housing.
Large Melee Weapon: Something like a machete, sword or 
large entrenching tool that inflicts 2D6 damage, for melee combat 
and may retract from a wrist or forearm housing
81-90% Heavy Firepower: The Nightbane’s Morphus pos-
sesses heavy weaponry that by all rights shouldn’t be one man-
portable. This weapon might take the form of a multi-shot rocket 
pod, a heavy machine-gun, Gatling-gun, or even a miniaturized 
light artillery cannon. Whatever it is, it’s big and unwieldy, but 
deals out devastating amounts of damage: 1D6x10 damage per 
melee attack! Maximum range is also impressive at 4,000 feet 
(1,219 m). Any ammunition necessary is provided at a rate of 
three shots per melee round. Each attack with this beast counts 
as one attack, but there are encumbrance and size penalties. Bo-
nuses: +2 to P.S. and P.E., +1D4x10 S.D.C., double the range 
and damage of the Darkblast Talent if channeled through this 
weapon, +1 to Horror Factor, and add an additional +10 damage 
against the Nightlords, their demonic minions and all denizens 
of the Nightlands. Penalties: Reduce Spd attribute by half, -3 to 
dodge and roll with impact, -1D6 to Hit Points, -3D6+10 from 
the permanent P.P.E. base, and -40% to skills like Acrobatics, 
Climbing, Gymnastics, Prowl, and Swimming, while skills like 
Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible!
91-00% Biomechanical: The Nightbane may have tank 
treads for legs, or a machine-gun or other weapon or piece of 
equipment for an arm. Roll for or select a feature from one of the 
Biomechanical tables (including Aquatic and Gear-Head), then 
relate it back to modern military. For instance, a Nightbane with 
the Rocket Jets feature may have dreamed of being a fighter pilot 
while one with tank treads instead of legs might have worked on 
armored vehicles as an army mechanic, or loves tanks.