Science Fiction Table
While some in the academic community debate whether sci-
ence fiction is even a legitimate literary genre, the public at large 
loves it. If anything, sci-fi and fantasy stories have only grown 
more popular since Dark Day as greater numbers of people seek 
a way to forget about a world around them that grows scarier by 
the day. Nightbane with a feature from this table are most likely 
to be avid readers, watchers, players, or even writers of sci-fi. On 
the other hand, the character may just be a technophile who keeps 
up on and is fascinated with the latest advances in technology.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Light Sci-Fi Armor: The body of the Morphus ap-
pears to be sheathed in a full suit of advanced body armor, includ-
ing a helmet that fully covers the face, which may or may not be 
visible. This armor typically looks to be composed of overlap-
ping plates but may incorporate form-fitting mesh, rubberized 
pieces, ceramic material, etc. Whatever it is, the armor looks like 
a high-tech, light, environmental body armor or plated spacesuit. 
Bonuses: +2D4x10+40 to S.D.C. (the armor), increase the Night-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
51
bane’s Natural A.R. to 11, +1 to roll with punch/fall/impact, +1 to 
Awe/Horror Factor, and the armor is environmentally sealed so 
the ‘Bane does not need air to breathe (the armored suit provides 
it) and he is immune to airborne irritants, toxins, and poisonous 
gases. Penalties: -1 to Perception Rolls, -1 to the P.E. attribute, -1 
to save vs magic of any kind, -5% to skills that require a delicate 
touch or precision (like most repairs, Art, Pick Locks, Pick Pock-
ets, etc.), and -10% to Physical skills like Acrobatics, Climbing, 
Prowl and Swimming due to physical encumbrance.
11-19% Heavy Sci-Fi Armor: This is a full suit of advanced, 
heavy body armor that covers the Morphus from head to toe. It 
is an environmental suit and is much heavier and bulkier than 
the light armor for greater protection in combat. It may have a 
high-tech mechanical look or may have an organic, resin or ge-
netically engineered appearance. As a heavy armor, it is an aug-
mentation system that slightly boosts the Nightbane’s strength. 
Bonuses: +1D4 to the P.S. attribute, +2D6x10+120 to S.D.C. 
(the armor), increase the Nightbane’s Natural A.R. to 14, +2 to 
roll with punch/fall/impact, kinetic attacks like punches and kicks 
do half damage, +1 to Awe/Horror Factor, and the environmen-
tally sealed armor means the ‘Bane does not need air to breathe 
(the armored suit provides it) and he is immune to airborne ir-
ritants, toxins, and poisonous gases. Penalties: -2 to Perception 
Rolls, -2 to the P.E. and Spd attributes, -3 to save vs magic of any 
kind, -20% to skills that require a delicate touch or precision (like 
most repairs, Art, Pick Locks, Pick Pockets, etc.), and -30% to 
Physical skills like Acrobatics, Climbing, Prowl and Swimming 
due to physical encumbrance.
20-28% Flight Pack/Thrusters: This feature may appear as 
a number of things from a flame-spewing jet pack, to a series of 
anti-gravity nodes built into various points of the Morphus form, 
to organic looking tubes growing out of the back or behind the 
shoulders. Regardless of the look, this feature offers the ability of 
high-speed, wingless flight. Maximum flight speed is 1D6x10+72 
(57-90 mph/91.2 to 144 kph) with a max altitude of 10,000 feet 
(3,048 m). The flight system has 100 S.D.C. of its own, but is 
only damaged when specifically targeted via Called Shot. The 
Flight Pack regenerates at the same rate as the Nightbane, but 
takes a full day to regenerate if completely destroyed. It is inop-
erable while regenerating. Bonuses: +2 to dodge while in flight; 
+4 to dodge when traveling at 60 mph (96 kph). +2 to damage for 
every 20 mph (32 km) of speed. +1 to Awe/Horror Factor when 
flying. Penalties: -1 to the P.E. and P.B. attributes and -2D6 to 
running speed, -2D6 from permanent P.P.E. base, and cannot 
hover (built for speed).
29-37% Energy Blaster: Whether a handheld weapon or one 
built into the body of the Morphus form, this feature provides a 
long-range energy weapon. The look may vary from high-tech to 
organic but always looks futuristic or alien/strange. The blaster is 
fueled by the Nightbane’s P.P.E., dealing 1D6 damage per point 
of P.P.E. expended with a max of 10 points able to be spent per 
attack. Bonuses: +3 to strike with an energy blast, range is 2,000 
feet (610 m), +1 to Awe/Horror Factor. Penalties: -2D6 from the 
permanent base P.P.E. and reduce the number of starting Talents 
by one. Note that the damage inflicted by the energy blaster is 
NOT considered magical or supernatural in nature.
38-46% Sci-Fi Melee Weapon(s): This feature provides a 
futuristic melee weapon (or pair if one-handed) that can be ener-
gized to deal additional damage. The weapon itself can look like 
any real or imagined weapon from a knife or sword to a battle-axe 
or mace, but typically has artistic accents and features that set it 
apart from mundane versions. It may appear to be made out of 
alien crystal or resin, or organic, and it could have portions of it 
that softly glow, have an electric hum, etc. In its normal state, a 
small weapon does 1D6 damage while large weapons do 2D6, al-
though if the Nightbane expends three P.P.E. per melee round for 
a small or six P.P.E. per melee round for a large weapon, its base 
damage is doubled, and the weapon does triple damage to Night-
lords and their demonic minions. This increased power level is 
apparent as the weapon will hum with a high-frequency vibration, 
be sheathed in some form of energy, or something similar. Bo-
nuses: +1 to Awe/Horror Factor when the weapon is energized to 
do extra damage. If not already known, the Nightbane gets the ap-
propriate Weapon Proficiency skill for the weapon, but it is appli-
cable only while in Morphus form. The Sci-Fi weapon(s) cannot 
be forcibly taken from the character or otherwise disarmed, but 
can be sheathed or put aside, and willingly relinquished. HOW-
EVER, anyone else trying to use the weapon finds it deceptively 
heavy and not well balanced (-6 to strike, parry and disarm). Pen-
alties: -1D6 Hit Points and -1D6 from permanent P.P.E. base, 
and do NOT add Supernatural P.S. punch or any strength bonuses 
to energized weapon damage.
47-56% Universal Translator: This feature usually takes the 
shape of a futuristic earpiece, mask, or cell phone-like mini-com-
puter, and sometimes what looks to be a cybernetic implant in 
the ear, head, or neck. It allows the Nightbane to understand and 
speak ALL languages with 98% fluency. Even alien languages 
never heard on Earth will be comprehended as long as there is 
no additional non-lingual component such as physical gestures 
or color-changing skin or lights as part of the language. In addi-
tion, this Nightbane is likely to find different cultures, people and 
societies very interesting. Bonuses: Ability to understand and 
speak all languages, +1 to I.Q. and M.A. attributes, +5% bonus to 
any Communications and Lore skills, and +10 Anthropology and 
Archeology skills (when applicable). Penalties: -1 to the P.B. at-
tribute and -1D6 from permanent P.P.E. base.
57-66% Sci-Fi Optics: Most often appearing as a helmet, 
goggles, visor, or mechanical/cybernetic eye(s), this feature en-
ables the Nightbane to see in a variety of different ways and in 
different spectrums of light. Infrared (heat) and ultraviolet (U.V.) 
spectrums are visible until they transition to radio and micro-
waves. The ability to see heat signatures means the Nightbane 
can “see” if an engine is hot or cold, see targets in smoke and 
through thin walls, as well as see and follow recent footsteps that 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
52
are less than 10 minutes old. Automatic light-adjusting lens and 
polarization protects against bright light and glare, and a virtual 
targeting reticule is superimposed over vision when in combat. 
For an expense of 3 P.P.E., the Nightbane can see the magically 
invisible (range 1,000 feet/305 m) for one minute per level of ex-
perience. Bonuses: +2 to Perception Rolls and +1 to strike with 
ranged weapons. +1 to Awe/Horror Factor. Penalties: -1 to the 
P.B. attribute and -1D6 from permanent P.P.E. base.
67-76% Personal Scanner/Sensors: The Morphus has a 
small device that is handheld or cybernetic and built into the 
hand, forearm, shoulder, or head. This device incorporates a vari-
ety of sensory equipment with various capabilities. Bonuses: +1 
to Awe/Horror Factor. Penalties: -1 to M.A. and -1D4 from the 
permanent P.P.E. base per EACH scan feature selected. 1D4+1 
scan features may be selected from those listed below.
Bio-Scanner: A futuristic biometric scanner that can deter-
mine body temperature, blood pressure, heart rate, respiration 
rate, oxygen saturation, pupil dilation, synaptic activity, etc. of 
the Nightbane, plus a warning system when Hit Points are being 
lost, blood loss, disease, etc. HOWEVER, the scanner also works 
on reading the biometrics of others, either by touch by the Night-
bane or a scan up to 10 feet (3 m) away; line of sight required. 
This can be used for a host of medical and non-medical uses 
from pinpointing internal bleeding to respiratory function, organ 
failure, identifying broken bones, and to a lesser degree gauging 
emotional states. The latter cannot be used as a lie detector, but it 
will indicate if the individual seems excited/agitated, or calm/re-
laxed, which may offer clues as to whether the individual may be 
saying things contrary to his feelings, or indicate that things may 
not be what they seem; i.e. a capture feigning terror but the bio-
scan suggests he is calm and not afraid. Which, in turn, suggests 
this may be a trap, he is lying or more powerful or at least more 
confident than he is pretending to be. Which should raise the 
question of why? +10% to all Medical skills while in Morphus 
form as well as +10% to Interrogation and Intelligence skills.
EM Field Detector: A scanning tool that picks up a variety 
of electromagnetic radiation such as that put out by electronic 
devices and magnetic fields. Detection range is 50 feet (15.2 m). 
Add +10% to all Electrical skills while in Morphus form.
Geiger Counter: A device used to detect potentially dangerous 
nuclear radiation; it will deliver a warning when harmful levels 
are detected and indicate exactly what the level of radiation is 
and where the radiation increases and decreases. Detection range 
is 50 feet (15.2 m).
Miniature Radar: A small radar unit used to track flying ob-
jects as small as human-sized. It can isolate and track up to 20 
different objects up to a range of 30 miles (48 km) with a floor of 
25 feet (7.6 m). +1 on initiative and +1 to strike flying opponents, 
or +2 to dodge incoming attacks. Also reduce penalties in dark-
ness and when blind by half.
Motion Detector: This sensor monitors for minute changes in 
air pressure that indicate moving objects. Detection range is 100 
feet (30.5 m). Reduce penalties in darkness and when blinded by 
half, and +1 to dodge. Moreover, the ‘Bane cannot be surprised 
by an attack that is coming in from behind or above.
Molecular Analyzer: A sophisticated tool that uses mass spec-
trometry to determine the exact chemical composition of any-
thing scanned. Can detect chemical traces as low as 20 parts per 
million at a range of up to 25 feet (7.6 m). +10% to Crime Scene 
Investigation and all Chemistry skills while in Morphus form.
Sense Magic: The sensor can pick up strong, magical energy 
signatures such as ley lines, nexus points, and magic items and 
living beings who contain/possess more than 70 points of P.P.E. 
Detection range is 30 feet (9.1 m).
77-85% Hologram Projector: The Nightbane’s Morphus 
form has a futuristic-looking camera built into the body (usu-
ally the head, shoulder or forearm) or carried on the person. This 
is actually a complex projector capable of creating holograms, 
3-dimensional images made of light. Such holograms have no 
substance but look completely real from any angle and can even 
fool beings immune to magical illusions. Holograms may cover 
an area up to 10 feet x 10 feet x 10 feet (3x3x3 m) in size and 
projected as far as 50 feet (15.2 m) away. They can also be made 
to surround the Nightbane, other people, or other objects.
While these images are incredibly convincing, keep in mind 
that they do not fool other senses like hearing, smell or touch, nor 
supernatural senses like Sense Evil, Sense Magic, See Aura, or 
sensors such as pressure plates or thermal optic systems. Normal 
cameras will record the hologram, though. The projector can only 
operate for five minutes out of any one hour period before need-
ing to recharge from the character’s bio-kinetic energy. Bonuses: 
+1 to all Perception Rolls and +2 to save vs illusions. Automati-
cally gets the Disguise and Camouflage skills at 80% or a bo-
nus of +20% (whichever is higher) if using the projector for dis-
guising his own appearance, hiding or concealment. Penalties: 
-1D6+6 from permanent P.P.E. base. -2 attacks/actions per melee 
round and reduce Spd 10% while the projector and holographic 
image are active.
86-94% Force Field Array: A series of nodes or small, elec-
tronic patches are built into the Morphus or incorporated into 
some kind of harness or full-body suit. This system projects a 
form fitting energy field that defends against a variety of attacks. 
The force field protects the Nightbane from poison gases and 
fumes, as well as kinetic and energy attacks such as punches, 
explosions, bullets, energy blast and even magically created en-
ergy like a fire ball or lightning bolt. It does NOT protect against 
Mesmerism, illusions, mind control and possession.
The force field provides an additional 1D6x10+200 S.D.C. 
Any damage directed at the Nightbane is subtracted from the 
force field first. As long as the force field has S.D.C., it regen-
erates from damage and restores S.D.C. at the same rate as the 
Nightbane normally heals. If the force field is reduced to zero 
S.D.C., it is down and unavailable for 6 hours. When it comes 
back online it is at full power. Note: To activate Talents or to 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
53
cast spells this force field must be dropped while the P.P.E. is 
expended. Raising and lowering the shield is so fast it does not 
require using a melee action, but does leave the Nightbane open 
to attack for 2D4 seconds. Bonuses: +1D6 to the ‘Bane’s Hit 
Points. Damage is always subtracted from this force field before 
the character’s personal S.D.C. or Hit Points can be affected. Im-
mune to gases, poison, and diseases while the force field is up. 
Penalties: -2D6+3 from the permanent P.P.E. base, and a Night-
bane with this feature can never develop Talents such as Shadow 
Shield or Pipe Bomb that create a magical protective field.
95-00% Bug-Eyed Monster: The Nightbane resembles like 
an alien from another world. This could be the classic “Grey” 
alien like those depicted in the movie Close Encounters of the 
Third Kind or the X-Files TV show, or a strange, scary creature 
like those depicted in Grade-B sci-fi novels, comic books, films, 
TV or games, usually with weird, oversized eyes and/or insect 
or crustacean features like eye stalks, crab claws, antennae, and 
so on, as long as the alien is monstrous vs very human or attrac-
tive in appearance. For example, the Nightbane may resemble the 
aliens from Mars Attacks, or the Alien series of movies, or Inde-
pendence Day, or a Gorn from the original Star Trek TV show, or 
any aliens in the Star Wars cantina scene. Be creative, or random 
roll or select from another table which can create a science fiction 
alien look. Likely alternatives include features from the Alien 
Shape, Biomechanical, or the Extraterrestrial table.