Mineral Table
Although rare, some Nightbane have shapes that appear to 
be made from inorganic materials such as solid stone, metals 
or minerals; either crudely fashioned or life-like as if carefully 
sculpted. In other cases, the mineral aspects are only part of the 
body and can include large crystal formations, stone, crystal or 
metal spikes and/or horns, or limbs made of stone or metal. In 
most cases, Disguise, Undercover Ops and Swimming skills are 
impossible, and skills like Acrobatics, Gymnastics, Prowl, and 
others suffer a penalty of -40%.
01-20% Rough Metal Body: The Nightbane looks as if he 
was made from lumps/clusters of metal or molten metal that 
cooled in lumps and streams like the surface of a partially melted 
candle. Or he may look like crude, unprocessed metal ore with 
a rough surface dotted with tiny crystals and discoloration. The 
body is roughly human shaped, but large and heavy set. Bonuses: 
+4D6x10 to S.D.C. and +6 to P.S. and P.E., impervious to cold 
(no damage) but takes double damage from fire, and +1D4 to 
Horror Factor. Note: Reduce speed by 6 points and weight is increased by 400 pounds (180 kg).
21-35% Metal Statue: The Nightbane is shaped like a wellsculpted, metallic humanoid (this form, unless marred with a 
deformity, will mark the Nightbane as a “Ken or Barbie”). The 
form is not unattractive, but unsettling and inhuman. Since the 
Nightbane (unless other characteristics change this) has a basically humanoid size and shape, he can hide his appearance under 
clothing and a hood or hat. Bonuses: +3D6x10 to S.D.C., +3 to 
P.S. and P.E., impervious to cold (no damage) but takes double 
damage form fire, and +1 to Horror Factor. Note: Reduce speed 
by 4 points and weight is increased by 300 pounds (135 kg).
36-50% Rough Stone Body: As above, but the Nightbane 
looks like he is made of roughly hewn blocks of stone. Bonuses: 
+3D6x10 to S.D.C., +4 to P.S. and P.E., resistant to fire and cold 
(takes half damage), and +1D4 to Horror Factor. Note: Reduce 
speed by 4 and weight is increased by 300 pounds (135 kg).
51-65% Living Statue: A finely sculpted and detailed humanoid figure that looks normal except it’s made of inorganic 
material (crystal, marble, ebony or stone). Since the Nightbane 
(unless other characteristics change this) has a basically humanoid size and shape, he can hide his appearance under clothing 
with a hood or a hat. Weight is increased by 200 pounds (90 kg). 
Bonuses: +2D6x10 to S.D.C., +2 to P.S. and P.E., resistant to fire 
and cold (takes half damage), and +1 to the Horror Factor. Note: 
Reduce speed by 2 points.
66-75% Part Inorganic: The character has hands and arms or 
his chest and head made of stone, crystal or metal, rough or highly polished. In the alternative, large patches all over the body are 
made of crystals, stone or metal and look as if they are protruding 
through a thin covering of skin. Bonuses: +2 to P.S., +4D6x2 to 
S.D.C. and +1 to Horror Factor.
76-85% Part Inorganic with Weapons: The Nightbane’s 
forearms and hands turn into stone, crystal or metal, with a hand 
that is a sword or axe-like weapon or a hand that has long, inorganic claws or knuckle spikes. Bonuses: +2D6 to damage in 
additional to Supernatural P.S. punch damage, and +1 to Horror 
Factor. In addition, the hands are resistant to cold, heat and fire 
(take half damage).
86-90% Horns, Spines or Spikes: The character’s spine is 
covered in thick spines or spikes made of inorganic material, or 
has a crown of inorganic horns/spikes, or has 3D4 small spikes 
or spines all over. Bonuses: +5D6 to S.D.C., +1 to Horror Factor 
and an additional 1D6 damage when used as a weapon/in combat.
91-00% Crystalline Body: The body looks like it is made of 
crystal. The shape is not unattractive but very inhuman. The crystalline body has many sharp edges, and will tear through clothing 
after a few hours of wear and tear. Bonuses: +2D4x10 to S.D.C., 
+1 to Horror Factor, laser resistant (half damage), and the crystalline hands and fingers act like claws, inflicting an additional 1D6 
points of damage in addition to the Supernatural P.S. punch/kick 
damage. Note: The hands are not as articulated and have trouble 
holding on to things, -10% on all skills that require the use of 
hands.