Mineral Table II
Note: All mineral Morphus forms make the character impervious to the vampire’s bite and mind control.
01-10% Amethyst Crystal. The character appears to be a
sleek humanoid composed of purple, translucent and prismatic
amethyst crystal. Facial features are obscured as the face appears to have been cut from one or more giant gemstones.
Among mages and healers, amethyst is said to have a property
to improve powers of intuition. Bonuses: +3 to Perception
Rolls, +1 on initiative, +1 to save vs mind control, possession
and illusions, +1D4x10+26 S.D.C., +1 to M.A. and P.B. attributes. Penalties: Double weight in Morphus form, cannot swim
(sinks like a rock) and -10% to skills like Acrobatics, Gymnastics, and Climbing.
11-20% Arsenic: Appears as a thick, bulky humanoid that
seems to be made of living rock – rock formed from hundreds of
porous, metallic balls fused together, giving the surface a
lumpy, bumpy texture; brownish-gray to gray in color. Bonuses: +6D6+12 S.D.C., +1 to P.E. attribute, and +2 to Horror
Factor. Clawing, biting and any attack by the Nightbane that
cuts or stabs an opponent with the character’s mineral body does
the usual damage plus 2D6 damage from poison. Furthermore,
the ‘Bane can scrape grains of arsenic off his body to use as ingested poison typically mixed into food or drink. Anyone who
eats arsenic suffers 3D6 damage direct to Hit Points. A
Nightbane made of arsenic is also impervious to poison, +3 to
save vs toxins and drugs, and resistant to fire and heat (does half
damage). However, when heated the character exudes the smell
of garlic which is repugnant to vampires, Wampyrs, were-beasts
and select other supernatural beings, and holds them at bay for a
20 foot (6.1 m) radius around the Mineral Nightbane. Penalties:
Triple weight in Morphus form, cannot swim (sinks like a rock)
and -15% to skills like Acrobatics, Gymnastics, and Climbing.
21-30% Emerald/Tourmaline: The character appears to be
a sleek humanoid composed of rich green, translucent emerald
or tourmaline crystal. Facial features are obscured as the face
appears to have been cut from one giant gemstone or made up of
several. Among mages and healers, green crystals are believed
beneficial
to
the
healing
process
anti-poison.
Bonuses:
93
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
+2D4x10 S.D.C., +1D4 P.E., +3 to save vs poison and toxins,
+1 to save vs disease/illness, plus the ‘Bane can heal others, restoring 4D6+6 S.D.C. or Hit Points twice per 24 hours, or completely negate poison (restoring all lost H.P./S.D.C. from
poison). When the healing touch is used, the emerald hand
glows as if there were a light inside the palm and radiates
through the forearm. Penalties: Double weight in Morphus
form, cannot swim (sinks like a rock), -10% to skills like Acrobatics, Gymnastics, and Climbing, and reduce Spd by 10%.
31-40% Gold: Appears to be a man made of solid metallic
gold. The body is sleek, smooth, lustrous gold and the character
weighs 10x more in his golden Morphus. Facial features are
smoothed out and unidentifiable. Bonuses: +2D6x10+12 S.D.C.
+1D4 to P.S., +6 to punch and kick damage (in addition to P.S.
bonus), electricity does no damage (goes right through him),
blunt attacks, bullets, projectiles, impacts and explosions inflict
half damage, bullets and projectiles become imbedded in the
soft gold mineral, but can be easily plucked out without any additional damage and a few minutes after being removed, the indentation smooths over to leave no mark/scar of any kind. Fire
and heat do full damage. Penalties: Heavy as lead, the gold
character’s weight may be a problem in certain situations, he
cannot swim while in the gold form (sinks like a lead weight)
nor perform Acrobatics or Gymnastics, -40% to Climbing skill
and reduce Spd by half.
41-50% Orpiment: Appears to be a man made of a rich
lemon yellow, prismatic crystal that resembles amber with many
fine fracture lines running through it. The body is sleek, chiseled, smooth, lustrous, facial features are smoothed out and unidentifiable/nondescript and weighs 3x more in Morphus. A
sulfide mineral, the Orpiment Morphus is impervious to the effects of stench and other powerful odors, and when heated
smells of garlic, which is repugnant to vampires, wampyres,
werebeasts and select other supernatural beings, and holds them
at bay for a 20 foot (6.1 m) radius around the Mineral
Nightbane. Among mages and healers, yellow crystals represent
inspiration. Bonuses: +1D6x10+6 S.D.C., +1D4 M.A. (radiates
warmth and genuineness), +1 to M.E., +1 to P.B., impervious to
stench and airborne toxins, and +1 to save vs poison and toxins
of all kinds. Penalties: Triple weight in Morphus form, cannot
swim (sinks like a rock), -15% to skills like Acrobatics, Gymnastics, and Climbing, and reduce Spd by 20%.
51-60% Iron: Hematite: Appears to me made of smooth
gray, black or brownish-red iron. The body is heavy, weighing
x6 more in his iron Morphus than his Facade. Facial features are
smoothed
out
and
unidentifiable/nondescript.
Bonuses:
+3D6x10+66 S.D.C. +1D6 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +2 to Horror Factor, +4 to punch and kick damage (in addition to P.S. bonus),
and +3 to roll with impact. Blunt attacks, bullets, projectiles, impacts and explosions inflict half damage, and bullets and projectiles bounce off the iron body; fire, heat and extreme cold do
half damage, and the character can parry weapons and fiery
torches with his bare hands. Penalties: A heavy material, the
iron character’s weight may be a problem in certain situations,
he cannot swim while in the iron form (sinks like a rock) nor
perform Acrobatics or Gymnastics, -30% to Climbing skill and
reduce Spd by half.
61-70% Iron: Magnetite: Appears to be a man made of either smooth, dark gray metal/iron or a grainy black rock with
flecks of bronze crystals and/or streaks. The body is heavy,
weighing 6x more in his iron Morphus than his Facade. Facial
features
are
smoothed
out
and
unidentifiable.
Bonuses:
+2D6x10+40 S.D.C. +1D6 to P.S., +2 to Horror Factor, +3 to
punch and kick damage (in addition to P.S. bonus). Blunt attacks, bullets, projectiles, impacts and explosions inflict half
damage, and bullets and projectiles bounce off the iron body;
fire and heat do half damage, and the character can parry weapons and fiery torches with his bare hands. This is a highly magnetic iron mineral, thus any iron or steel weapon or object that
touches his body is held fast to it and requires a P.S. of 24 or
greater to pull it free. The Nightbane can momentarily cancel
the magnetic field to release any metal object attached to him,
and can make any metal object within 6 feet (1.8 m) come to
him, and one can be made to fly right into his hand (maximum
weight 20 lbs/9 kg per object, and it must have sufficient
iron/steel content). The character can also affix himself to
iron/steel, enabling him to stand, walk and hold onto vehicles,
boxcars, and even rockets or the hull of ships. This enables him
to scale such structures or affix himself to them with such force
that a combined P.S. of 50 is necessary to pry him loose. Always knows where north is located, +20% to Navigation skills,
+5% to Land Navigation. Penalties: A heavy material, the iron
character’s weight may be a problem in certain situations, he
cannot swim while in the iron form (sinks like a rock) nor perform Acrobatics or Gymnastics, -30% to Climbing skill (unless
using magnetic powers on steel) and reduce Spd by one third.
71-80% Silver: Appears to be made of a sleek, lustrous, metallic silver. Facial features are smoothed out and unidentifiable.
Bonuses: +2D6x10+6 S.D.C. +1 to P.S., +3 to punch and kick
damage (in addition to P.S. bonus), electricity does no damage
(goes right through him), blunt attacks, bullets, projectiles, impacts and explosions inflict half damage and bounce off his
body, and the character can parry weapons with his bare hands.
Fire and heat do full damage. The punches, kicks and other attacks from a Nightbane made of silver inflict double damage to
vampires, werebeasts and other beings vulnerable to silver. Furthermore, such beings view him with apprehension and fear,
giving the silver character +2 on initiative and +1 to strike, parry
and disarm when battling such creatures. Penalties: Heavy 8x
normal weight, the silver character’s weight may be a problem
in certain situations, he cannot swim while in the silver form
(sinks like a rock) and is -20% to perform skills such as Acrobatics, Gymnastics, and Climbing, and reduce Spd by one third.
81-90% Clear Crystal/Quartz. The character’s body appears to be covered in clear, translucent crystal rods sticking out
of his flesh, face and skull (+2 to Horror Factor), or he may appear to be made entirely of cut, clear crystal (+1 to H.F.). He
may also have a crown, horns or mane of crystals on his head
instead of hair, and the face is covered and distorted by crystals
as to conceal his human identity. Resistant to fire and heat, and
the character can parry weapons with his bare hands. Bonuses:
+1 to P.S., +3 to damage, +1 to Perception Rolls, +1 to save vs
psionic attacks, +1D6x10+30 S.D.C., impervious to laser attacks, half damage from electricity and other energy attacks,
blunt and projectile attacks do full damage, and the Clear Crystal Morphus can see and attack Astral Beings, the clear crystals
of his body able to inflict damage to Astral Being with punches,
kicks, and any crystalline weapon. Can form one crystalline
94
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
weapon from his hand, typically a rod or sword-like weapon that
does 2D6 damage (+1D6 to Astral Beings). Penalties: Double
weight in Morphus form, cannot swim (sinks like a rock) and
-10% to skills like Acrobatics, Gymnastics, and Climbing.
91-00% Uraninite: Appears as a normal sized humanoid
that seems to be made of living rock – rock formed from hundreds of granular habits/balls fused into stone, giving the surface
a lumpy, bumpy texture; a dark, charred grey or black color with
a few small specks of yellow that look like chip marks. Highly
radioactive. Resistant to fire and heat (half damage) and can
parry weapons and fiery torches with bare hands. Bonuses:
+2D4x10 S.D.C., +1 to P.S., +4 to punch and kick damage (in
addition to P.S. bonus), impervious to radiation, burning
touch/fire fist – no flame but radiates heat from the hands to inflict 2D6 damage per attack. Can fire heat blast up to 20 feet
(6.1 m) inflicting 2D6 damage. Penalties: The character weighs
10x more in his Mineral Morphus. Heavy as lead, the Uraninite
character’s weight may be a problem in certain situations, he
cannot swim while in the mineral form (sinks like a rock) nor
perform Acrobatics or Gymnastics, -50% to Climbing skill and
reduce Spd by half.