Mineral Table 
Although rare, some Nightbane have shapes that appear to be made 
from inorganic materials such as solid stone, metals or minerals; either 
crudely fashioned or life-like as if carefully sculpted. In other cases, the 
mineral aspects are only part of the body and can include large crystal 
formations, stone, crystal or metal spikes and/or horns, or limbs made 
of stone or metal.
01-20% Rough Metal Body: The Nightbane looks as if he was 
made from lumps/clusters of metal or molten metal that cooled in lumps 
and streams like the surface of a partially melted candle. Or he may 
look like crude, unprocessed metal ore with a rough surface dotted with 
tiny crystals and discoloration. The body is roughly human shaped, but 
large and heavy-set. Add 4D6x1O to S.D.C. and +6 to P.S. and P.E., but 
reduce speed by 6 points. Weight is increased by 400 Ibs. ( 1 80 kg). Add 
I D4 to horror factor. Impervious to cold (no damage) but takes double 
damage from fire.
21-35 % Metal Statue: The Nightbane is shaped like a well­
sculpted metallic humanoid (this form, unless marred with a deformity, 
will mark the Nightbane as a "Ken or Barbie"). The form is not unat­
tractive, but unsettlingly inhuman. Since the Nightbane (unless other 
characteristics change this) has a basically humanoid size and shape, he 
can hide his appearance under clothing and a hood or hat. Add 3D6xlO 
to S.D.C., +3 to P.S. and P.E., and reduce speed by 4. Weight is in­
creased by 300 Ibs. ( 1 35 kg) and + 1 to horror factor. Impervious to cold 
(no damage) but takes double damage from fire.
36-50 % Rough Stone Body: As above, but the Nightbane looks 
like he is made of roughly hewn blocks of stone. Add 3D6xlO to 
S.D.C., +4 to P.S. and P.E. and reduce speed by 4. Weight is increased 
by 300 Ibs. ( 1 35 kg) and add I D4 to horror factor. Resistant to fire and 
cold (takes half damage).
51-65 % Living Statue: A finely sculpted and detailed humanoid 
figure that looks normal except it's made of inorganic material (crystal, 
marble, ebony or stone). Since the Nightbane (unless other charac­
teristics change this) has a basically humanoid size and shape, he can 
hide his appearance under clothing with a hood or a hat. Weight is in­
creased by 200 pounds (90 kg). Add 2D6x1O to S.D.C., +2 to P.S. and 
P.E., reduce speed by 2, and + 1 to the horror factor. Resistant to fire 
and cold (takes half damage).
66-75 % Part Inorganic: The character has the hands and arms or 
chest and head of stone, crystal or metal, rough or highly polished. In 
the alternative, large patches all over the body are made of crystals, 
stone or metal and look as if they are protruding through a thin covering 
of skin. Adds +2 to P.S., 4D6x2 to S.D.C. and + 1 to horror factor.
76-85 % Part Inorganic with Weapons: The Nightbane's forearms 
and hands tum into stone, crystal or metal with a hand that is a sword or 
axe-like weapon or a hand that has long inorganic claws or knuckle 
spikes. Adds 2D6 to damage and +1 to horror factor. In addition, the 
hands are resistant to cold, heat and fire (take half damage).
86-90% Horns, Spines or Spikes: The character's spine is covered 
in thick spines or spikes made of inorganic material, or has a crown of 
inorganic horns/spikes, or has 3D4 small spikes or spines all over. Adds 
5D6 to S.D.C., +1 to horror factor and an additional l D6 damage when 
used as a weapon/in combat.-00% Crystalline Body: The body looks like it is made of crys­
tal. The shape is not unattractive but very inhuman. The crystalline 
body has many sharp edges, and will tear through clothing after a few 
hours of wear and tear. Add 2D4xl O  to S.D.C., +1 to horror factor, la­
ser resistant (half damage), and the crystalline hands and fingers act like 
claws, inflicting an additional I D6 points of damage on punches. How­
ever, the hands are not as articulated and have trouble holding on to 
things; -10% on all skills that require the use of hands. 