Undead Table
This Morphus may manifest if the character has been traumatized by a near-death experience, the passing of someone close
to him, or he comes from a war-torn nation or other setting
plagued by death. On the other hand, the character may have
been fascinated by death, dying, the afterlife, immortality, zombies, vampires and other undead. Lastly, he may have felt his
life was a dead end, he toiled like a mindless zombie, or, contrarily, longed for immortality. Most Nightbane with this
Morphus have little or no fear of death and some even believe
they are immortal or eternal champions. Note: All Undead
Nightbane have absolutely no life signs (e.g. no pulse or respiration, etc.), and the body gives off no heat. Though the Nightbane
is not truly “undead,” he or she is immune to the effects of extreme cold and heat, does not need to breathe, and is impervious
to the bite and mind control of vampires and other undead creatures, and will not be attacked by zombies unless he attacks
them first.
01-20% Partial Skeleton Form: The Morphus is a human
body half stripped of its flesh and muscle. Half the face is skeletal and the lower body or one side of the body, or the four limbs
are skeletal. Bonuses: +1D4x10 S.D.C., the ‘Bane takes half
damage from bullets and other piercing attacks. In addition, if a
limb is severed it can be reattached simply by placing it back on
the body. This can even be done with the head if the Nightbane
survives the damage done! +1D4 to Horror Factor. Penalties:
-1D4 from M.A., -40% to Disguise and Undercover Ops, -10%
to Prowl.
21-40% Walking Corpse: The Morphus is the classic zombie – a human that looks dead and half decayed, with putrefied
flesh, sunken eyes, and a body in any state of advanced decomposition. Tattered clothing is optional. Bonuses: +1D6x10
S.D.C., the ‘Bane takes half damage from bullets and other
piercing attacks. In addition, if a limb is severed it can be reattached simply by placing it back on the body. If the head is decapitated or destroyed, the Nightbane dies. +1D4 to Horror
Factor. Penalties: Has a craving for brains (animal or human),
reduce Spd by 30%, -15% to Prowl (shuffling walk), -1D4 on
initiative, -1 from I.Q. and -1D4 from P.B.
41-60% Walking Mummy: The Morphus is a human body
that is wrapped in linen strips of cloth, leaving only a slit for the
eyes and mouth. Under the linen wrapping is a shriveled, desiccated corpse. Bonuses: +2D4x10 S.D.C., Natural A.R. 11, +1 to
P.S., never hungers, thirsts, or fatigues, +1 to Horror Factor.
Penalties: Reduce Spd by 10%, -10% to Prowl (shuffling walk),
and fire does 50% greater damage.
61-80% Vampiric Nature: The Morphus is the classic handsome human vampire: Pale, flawless skin, smoldering eyes, cool
to the touch, strong, a pair of fangs, and no reflection in a mirror
(cannot Mirror Walk or use other Mirror Magic, but is +5 to
save
vs
Mirror
Magic
leveled
against
him).
Bonuses:
+2D4x10+13 S.D.C., Natural A.R. 10, +1 to M.A., +1D6 to
P.S., +2 to P.B., +1D4 to Spd, can leap 10 feet (3 m) high and
15 feet (4.6 m) across, +10% to Climbing and Prowl skills,
+20% to Seduction skill, bite attack does 1D6 damage, and +1
to Horror Factor. Penalties: -2 to M.E., weapons made of wood,
silver or Holy Weapons inflict double damage, dislikes water,
especially large bodies of water (-20% to Swimming), hates
sunlight and can only see 200 feet (61 m) in daylight (double
distance with sunglasses). Note: Craves blood! Yes, just like a
real vampire, this Nightbane loves the taste of fresh, warm
blood, and drinking 10 ounces restores 1D4 Hit Points and 2D4
S.D.C. (6 ounces of blood from a Night Prince or Nightlord restores 1D6 Hit Points and 3D6 S.D.C.!). Whether one considers
this ability a bonus or a curse/penalty varies with the individual
and alignment. Cannot turn into a bat or wolf, nor create and
command other vampires, nor mind control people.
81-00% Nosferatu Vampire: The Morphus is a demonic
vampire with an ugly face, oversized cranium, large pointed
ears, sunken eyes, pale skin with a yellow or green hue, long,
slender fingers that end in long, claw-like fingernails, and a thin
body, like a desiccated corpse. Bonuses: +2D4x10+36 S.D.C.,
Natural A.R. 12, +2D4 to P.S., +2 on Perception Rolls,
Nightvision 2,000 feet (610 m), detect the scent of blood up to
3,000 feet (914 m) away and can track it to its source (82% skill
96
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
proficiency), +20% to Climbing, Escape Artist, Prowl and Seduction skills (as is applicable) in darkness, +2D6 to claw strike
plus Supernatural P.S. damage, bite attack does 2D6 damage,
and +2 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -3 to M.E., weapons made
of wood, silver or Holy Weapons inflict double damage, being
impaled through the heart puts the character in a coma (stasis),
hates water (it stings the flesh), especially large bodies of water
(cannot swim), hates sunlight which hurts the eyes and blisters
unprotected skin, can only see 100 feet (30.5 m) in daylight
(double distance with sunglasses). Note: Craves blood just like
a real vampire. Drinking 8 ounces of fresh, warm blood restores
1D6 Hit Points or 2D6 S.D.C. (6 ounces of blood from a Night
Prince or Nightlord restores 2D6 Hit Points and 6D6 S.D.C.!).
Whether one considers this ability a bonus or a curse/penalty
varies with the individual and alignment. Cannot turn into a bat
or wolf, nor create and command other vampires, nor mind control people.