Plant Life Table
Note: In all cases, fire does double damage to plant-life, but 
the Nightbane is resistant to cold (does half damage). In most 
cases, Disguise, Seduction and Undercover Ops skills are impossible.
01-20% Humanoid Tree: The Nightbane looks like a tree 
that has come to life. The strength and resilience of the character 
is incredible, but he is very slow and cumbersome. He has a tree 
trunk instead of a torso and two long branches with leaves instead 
of arms (if an Unnatural Limbs characteristic, adding extra limbs 
is also taken, the tree shape would have additional branches). His 
head is sunken at the top of the trunk and between the two arms/
branches. It is leaf-covered and misshapen. Instead of legs, several root-like limbs allow some very slow movement. The character could pass for a strangely-shaped tree if he does not move; 
he can even make his “roots” sink into the ground, completing 
the illusion.
Add 3D4x10 to S.D.C., +6 to P.S., +1D4 to Horror Factor, can 
heal 2D6 S.D.C./Hit Points every 24 hours, but reduce speed by 
half, and reduce skill performance by 75%.
21-30% Cactus Skin: The character looks normal except his 
skin is green and covered with long, white needle-like cactus 
spines six inches (0.15 m) long. Add +4D6x2 to S.D.C., 1D4 to 
hand to hand damage, attackers cannot grab or wrestle with the 
character without taking 2D6 damage per each attack/grab. +2 to 
Horror Factor.
31-40% Thorn Skin: The character’s skin is dark brown and 
his body is coiled in brown vines covered with thorns! Bonuses: 
+5D6x3 to S.D.C., 1D6 to damage in addition to Supernatural 
P.S. punches, attackers cannot grab or wrestle with the character 
without taking 3D6 damage per each attack/grab, and +3 to Horror Factor.
41-60% Living Mannequin: The Nightbane looks as if he 
is a giant, unfinished puppet or mannequin with a body made of 
polished wood but with the wood grain still showing. Bonuses: 
2D4x10 to S.D.C., 1D4 to damage and +1 to Horror Factor.
61-70% Tree Features: The character’s hair is replaced with 
green vines, or leaves or a cluster of tiny, thin branches; his fingers and nose are long and gnarled (branch-like in appearance), 
body hair becomes a fine, light green moss, and his skin a bit 
wrinkled (not like bark exactly, more like a 90 year old) and has 
a grayish green color. Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C. and +2 to Horror 
Factor.
71-80% Flower Child: The character seems radiant, with 
a bright smile, sparkling eyes and a pleasant, fresh clean, light 
flower aroma. The hair is long and flowing and literally filled 
with flowers of all kinds. Likewise, the skin is healthy but seems 
to have dozens of small, colorful flowers glued to it. Insects, even 
monstrous ones, will not attack this character (note that spiders 
and scorpions are not insects, they are arachnids and will attack). 
Bonuses: +1D6 to S.D.C., +1D6 to M.A. and +3D4 to P.B., 
strangely attractive and alluring!
81-90% Bark Skin: The character’s skin is hard and looks 
and feels like rough tree bark. Bonuses: +4D6x20 to S.D.C., +1 
to A.R. and +2 to Horror Factor.
91-00% Stink Weed: The character’s skin is a pale green and 
he is covered by fine vines with 1D4x10 small, bulb-like clusters covering his body. One or two clusters can be opened at will 
(counts as one melee attack). Opening one cluster releases a repugnant, sweet odor. Anybody within 10 feet (3 m) must roll to 
save vs non-lethal poison (16 or higher) and a failed roll means 
the person gags, feels nauseous and is -3 on initiative, -1 to strike, 
parry and dodge, and -10% on skill performance; distracted by 
the terrible smell. Opening two will double the range and penalties. The smell lasts for one minute per level of the character andradiates around him like a flower, so it goes where he goes. Once 
a cluster has been used/opened it cannot be used again for 24 
hours. A successful save means the character is only -1 on initiative and -5% on skill performance. Smashing or cutting open a 
cluster will have the same effect. Bonuses: +3D6 to S.D.C. and 
+1 to Horror Factor.
Talent Manifestations
Talents are unlike any other ability in Palladium’s role-playing games. While powered by P.P.E., they are not spells. Nor are 
they psionic powers or super abilities. Talents are more akin to 
tangible expressions of will on the behalf of the Nightbane (and 
Shadow Mages).
As such, they tend to manifest in different ways for different 
Nightbane. What this means for players and Game Masters is that 
the mechanics of the powers are always the same, but visually 
they can be quite different.
For example, Stony Lonesome, a Nightbane with rock-like 
skin covered in razor wire, has the Darkwhip Talent. So does 
Crosswire, a Nightbane with a camera-like head and a robotic body. For both individuals, the Darkwhip Talent works the 
same way. However, Stony’s Darkwhip comes out as a long, 
deadly strand of barbed wire, and Crosswire’s Darkwhip flashes 
out as a bundle of seemingly animated electrical wiring. Such 
variations and effects do not add damage or functionality, but 
reflect aspects of personality and individuality to each Nightbane character.
It also means that other Nightbane sometimes have to guess at 
what Talents a Nightbane is using. When you see a holographic 
image overlay Crosswire’s Facade, making him look like someone else, did he just use Reshape Facade or is it something else? 
The observers are not 100% certain.
And there’s the fun.
A group of player characters may see Stony embrace with a 
badly injured woman and appear to vomit liquid concrete into 
her. He may be using Infectious Control or he might be using the 
Sharing the Flesh ability. If they attack and take the woman from 
him, they may save her life . . . or they may prevent him from 
healing her, and the shock could cause her to die.
Likewise, when special lenses drop over Crosswire’s cameralike eyes, did he just use See Truth or is he peering at that mirror 
on the wall and using Mirror Sight?
The manifestation of Talents usually have some connection 
or similarity to the Nightbane’s Morphus or personality. For 
example, Darksong may be a long, blood-curdling howl for a 
Nightbane with wolf-like attributes in Morphus, but a strange, 
unearthly choir begins singing whenever a Nightbane with an 
Angel Morphus uses the same Talent. Gloppy the Kid, a Nightbane with a plasmoid, shapeless body, oozes into his computer 
through the disc drive or DVD-ROM slot when he uses Lightning 
Rider, but Crosswire streams into his screen as a series of glowing “1”s and “0”s.
The only limit to the different Talent manifestations is your 
imagination. Just remember, the manifestations are only cosmetic 
visual variations. They do NOT provide any tangible benefit to 
the actual Talent; the Talent always functions the same, does the 
same damage and has the same effect, duration and range, it may 
just look different.
Appendix
Talents
For your convenience, we have reprinted the Morphus Tables 
from the Nightbane® RPG and select sourcebooks.Common Talents
from Nightbane® RPG
Anti-Arcane
Borrow Morphus
Darksong
Darkwhip
Doorway
Infectious Control
Lightening Rider
Mirror Sight
Mirror Search
Nightbringer
Premonition
Reshape Facade
See Truth
Shadow Blast
Shadow Shield
Sharing the Flesh
The Shroud
Shadow Slide
Soul Shield
Splittin’ Image
Stone Maker
Anti-Arcane
When activating this Talent, the Nightbane is surrounded by 
an aura of black light (easily confused with the Shadow Shield 
described below). While this aura is in effect, the Nightbane is 
utterly invulnerable to the effects of magic! Any magical spell 
that can be resisted by a save against magic will have no effect 
on the character. Spells that must be dodged, or have no saving 
throw, will work normally. The Anti-Arcane will last one minute 
(4 melees), at which time it must be reactivated.
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available until 
the character has reached fifth level.
Cost: Fifteen P.P.E. are permanently spent to acquire it and 20 
are needed every time to activate it.
Borrow Morphus
This rare power allows a Nightbane to assume the Morphus 
of another of his kind! The “other” Nightbane whose likeness is 
being copied suffers no ill effect other than the shock of seeing 
his double. The character gains the shape, all physical attributes, 
S.D.C. and Hit Points of the “borrowed” shape. He can also use 
any of the Talents possessed by the Nightbane he is imitating, 
but only abilities that the borrowing character knew the other 
possessed. Furthermore, the borrowing Nightbane cannot use 
his own Talents until he resumes his true form. He also uses his 
own combat skills (modified by the borrowed form’s attribute bonuses) and his normal skills – the Talent borrows only the other 
person’s physical body and does NOT include the character’s 
memories, knowledge, or insanities. The transformation lasts 4 
melee rounds (one minute).
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Not available until 
fifth level.
Cost: Fifteen P.P.E. permanent; 15 to activate, plus 15 P.P.E. 
for each additional minute the borrowed Morphus is kept.
Darksong
The Nightbane can emit a piercing, deafening sound; it can be 
an inhuman howl, a mighty roar, an ultrasonic keening, or even 
electronic feedback, depending on the Nightbane’s Morphus. 
Targets must make a roll to save (P.E. bonuses apply); if they roll 
under a 10, they are stunned for 1D4 melee rounds. The attacker 
can raise the number needed to save by expending additional 
P.P.E.: +1 point per 3 P.P.E. The Darksong can be used against 
an area (60 feet/18.3 m radius); in that case, everyone in the area, 
friend or foe, must make a save, but they are at +4 to resist.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Cost: Seven P.P.E. are permanently spent to acquire it; 5 
P.P.E. are needed to activate it (+3 to raise the save number by 
+1).
Darkwhip
Creates tendrils of darkness that inflict supernatural damage 
with a P.S. equal to the amount of P.P.E. spent on creating them. 
Lasts for 4 melee rounds (one minute), after which they must be 
recreated. Range is 60 feet (18.3 m). The tendrils can have any 
shape, not limited to whips and tentacles, although those are the 
most common. The Darkwhip can be used to strike and also to entangle or disarm, provided those skills are known to the wielder.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Cost: Eight permanent to acquire; 4 to activate (additional 
P.P.E. increases the amount of damage the whip inflicts with each 
strike).
Doorway
Creates a door of dark energy that leads to a specific location 
desired by the creator of it. Takes one melee round (15 seconds) 
of concentration. Range: To a location up to 1 mile (1.6 km) per 
2 P.P.E. spent. The Nightbane must have been to the destination 
point at least once in his life, or he must have line of sight.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Not available until 
reaching 5th level.
Cost: Fifteen P.P.E. to permanently acquire it, and a minimum 
of 2 P.P.E. to activate (see above). This power can also open adoorway to the Nightlands or back, but this costs 40 P.P.E., plus 
5 P.P.E. per mile.
Infectious Control
This often-repulsive Talent allows the Nightbane to take over 
a person by “infecting” him with a portion of his body. The manifestations of this power are varied. Some Nightbane shoot spines 
or needless that, when they pierce the flesh of the target, enable 
them to take over. Others create little “parasites” that burrow into 
the victim’s body. Biomechanicals often drill or shoot wires or 
microchips into the victim. Some Stigmata-sufferers actually 
force-feed the victim some of their blood to infect them.
Once the infection is complete (usually takes one melee round 
from the time the piece of the Nightbane has entered the body 
of the victim), the subject is controlled by the Nightbane for one 
melee round (15 seconds). At the end of the round, the victim can 
try to resist (save vs magic); if he fails the save, he is under the 
control of the Nightbane for 30 minutes. New saves are allowed 
every 10 minutes.
While in control, the Nightbane can see, hear and experience 
everything his victim does while he acts as puppeteer, controlling every word and movement of the victim. The main drawback 
is that the Nightbane has to split his concentration and attention 
between his own body and that of his victim. Thus, his attacks/
actions per melee round are divided evenly between the two bodies, he has no initiative bonus, and combat bonuses and skill performance is reduced by half, unless he relinquishes his control 
over his puppet.
The “infection” also allows the Nightbane to search the memories of his victim; one piece of information can be extracted by 
spending an additional 5 P.P.E. (and the victim gets a separate 
save to resist against the intrusion; this save is against psionic 
attack rather than magic). Each “memory search” takes 1D6 minutes and is limited to one small bit of information at a time.
Limitations: Usable only in Morphus form and is not available until 6th level.
Cost: Twenty P.P.E. are permanently spent to acquire it; 20 
P.P.E. to activate, plus 20 P.P.E. every additional half hour. The 
memory of the victim can be searched for an additional 5 P.P.E. 
per piece of information.
Note: Victims who have an M.E. of 7 or less are controlled for 
an hour at a time rather than the usual half an hour.
Lightning Rider
The Nightbane becomes a being of pure electrical energy! Unless a great deal of P.P.E. is spent, the electrical charge is weak 
and does not inflict damage. However, while in electrical form, 
the Nightbane can travel through conductive materials at enormous speeds. When the power is activated, the Nightbane disappears in a flash of electricity and “leaps” onto the nearest conductive material (metal and exposed wires works best). If no such 
material is around, the Nightbane appears to become a small pool 
of sparks, or a small, crackling lightning ball that crawls around 
at a speed of 8.
With the invention of the telephone and electrical wires, this 
Talent came into its own and enables Nightbane to travel from 
one corner of the world to the next in a matter of minutes through 
them. Some Nightbane become extremely proficient in navigating through telephone exchanges. The easiest way, of course, was 
to call the place one wished to travel to and then travel through 
the phone lines and jump out of the receiver! With the advent of 
computers and the Internet, this power has become even more influential. A character with Computer Operations can understand 
the information superhighway and hitch rides on modem calls. A 
character with Computer Programming can become the ultimate 
hacker!
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Cost: Fifteen P.P.E. to permanently acquire it; 10 to activate 
per minute (it takes one melee round of concentration to activate). 
The Nightbane can increase the voltage to inflict damage: 1D6 
S.D.C. per 5 P.P.E., per each attack Note: Eight points of damage 
will fry most electronics like radios, computers, etc. Specially 
shielded and hardened systems survive as much as 40 points of 
damage before being disabled.
Mirror Sight
This and other mirror related talents and natural abilities give 
the archaic name of “looking glass” great new significance when 
dealing with the Nightbane and the Nightlords. This Talent enables the Nightbane to see the other side of a mirror, into the 
Nightlands, and vice versa, as if it were a window. A mirror or 
any highly reflective surface (glass, polished metal, a quiet body 
of water) must be available. The character can only see what the 
mirror image faces in the Nightlands, and vice versa. Some Nightlands creatures may sense they are being “looked at” and could 
cross over to confront or attack the “peeper” (see the Nightlands 
Section for more information).
Limitations: Requires a mirror; can be used by both Morphus 
and Facade.
Duration: 10 minutes per level of the character’s experience.
Cost: Five P.P.E. for permanent acquisition; 2 to activate.
Mirror Search
Prerequisite: Mirror Sight.
The Nightbane is able to see through the mirror closest to 
the person or object he seeks. This is an area effect Talent that 
effectively scans a 10 mile (16 km) radius (more if additional 
P.P.E. are expended) in search of the person or item sought. This 
does not mean that the nearest mirror will reveal the target of the 
search, but the closest area and mirror to it. For example: Searching for a kidnapped friend, the mirror search may reveal the image of a bathroom in a hotel. The name of the hotel is visible from 
the hanging towels, which may be enough to figure out, at least 
roughly, where the person is. Or there may actually be a mirror 
in the hotel room (there usually is) that shows the Nightbane’s 
friend bound to a chair and being interrogated by two thugs and 
a Hound.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Cost: Ten P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 15 to activate for a 
10 mile (16 km) area, +5 P.P.E. per additional 10 miles (16 km).
Note: Both mirror sight and mirror search show only images, 
not sound – it is like looking through the glass of a closed window into the room or area that the mirror is located (which may 
show parts of other rooms or a hallway, things outside the windows in that room, etc.).
Covering a mirror with a blanket, towel, or other covering will 
prevent a character from effectively using mirror sight and mirror search, because all the mirror will show is that it is covered. 
However, it does not prevent a Nightlord or other so empowered 
being from traveling and entering that room through the covered 
mirror, even if wrapped snugly – the monster tears right through 
the cloth or tarp. However, painting the mirror will prevent such 
passage as well as use of the mirror as a window.
Nightbringer
Absorbs light around the Nightbane, creating an area of darkness equal to 10 feet (3 m) in diameter per every 2 P.P.E. spent. 
The power also absorbs energy attacks, except Shadow Blast, 
Dark Whip and other darkness-based attacks and magic. People 
caught in the unnatural darkness are at -6 to strike, parry and 
dodge, and -4 on their Perception Rolls (penalties are half for 
creatures with nightvision).
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Cost: Five P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 2 minimum to activate. Each additional 2 P.P.E. increases the diameter of the darkness by 10 feet (3 m).
Premonition
Gives the character feelings and visions about the future, often 
at unexpected times (ultimately, when the Game Master decides 
the character should get a vision, he does) or at moments of crisis. 
For the most part, “feelings” of premonition will give the character a feeling that something good, bad or dangerous is going to 
happen soon, or at some particular place, or to some particular 
person. These feelings are just that, and do not come with any 
dreams or images.
“Visions” on the other hand, are usually images and/or short 
dream sequences that are accompanied by “feelings.” These images are often symbolic omens and can be cryptic (but G.M.s, 
not too cryptic) and may give some hints of things to come. For 
example: The Nightbane may have a reoccurring vision about a 
man or Nightlord, or minion slaughtering innocent people, his 
friends or even himself. The murderous figure is always in shadow so his features cannot be seen, but the vision always ends with 
the image of a stylized eagle. Then one day, the Nightbane meets 
a person with a tattoo of that eagle, indicating that this person is 
the culprit, but not always. The tattoo could be the symbol of a 
gang or cult worn by all its members in one fashion or another. Or 
it could be the logo for a corporation, or a bar, or the emblem for a 
special police squad, the hilt of a magic sword, a statue, the cover 
of a book, and so on. At any rate, it gives our hero some warning 
about danger and who or what might be involved.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. A premonition can 
happen spontaneously, or when the Nightbane actively attempts 
to sense the future.
Cost: Two P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 2 to activate and 
2 when a spontaneous occurrence happens.
Reshape Facade
Although contemptuously called the Facade, the Nightbane’s 
human form is as unique and real to him or her as the superhuman 
Morphus. Nightbane with this Talent can temporarily alter the 
shape of the Facade, changing the features, hair color and even 
the size of their human form. The more extensive the change, the 
more P.P.E. the transformation will cost. Imitating a particular 
person is possible, but very difficult to get it right (20% plus I.Q. 
bonus, plus 3% per level of experience).
Limitations: Usable by the Facade only. Not available until 
the 3rd level.
Cost: Twelve P.P.E. to acquire it permanently, 6 to activate 
plus 4 per additional hour the disguise is desired.
See Truth
Every time this power is activated, the Nightbane is able to 
see the true nature of one person or object. This includes actually 
seeing a Nightbane’s Facade and Morphus forms, superimposed 
one over the other. The alignment of the target can also be seen; 
applicable to humans and Nightbane (in the latter case, it counts 
as a separate use of this Talent). Furthermore, See Truth also reveals strong emanations of magic, the undead/vampires, serious 
illness, and strong emotions (hatred when the person is smiling 
and being nice, etc.); all these things are considered aspects of 
the soul and/or personality of the target being examined via this 
Talent.
The subject saves against magic (12 or higher) to resist revealing the truth. The Nightbane can increase the difficulty of the 
save by expending more P.P.E.: every additional 4 P.P.E. raises 
the save number by +1 (maximum of 18, for 24 P.P.E.).
Limitations:
Range: line of sight up to 300 feet (91 m) away.Cost: Three permanent, 2 points to activate, +4 to increase 
save number by one.
Shadow Blast
Fires a black energy bolt that does 1D4 S.D.C. for every point 
of P.P.E. spent on it, so 10 P.P.E. would result in a 1D4x10 
S.D.C. bolt, and so on.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. The Nightbane can 
only spend 4 P.P.E. per level of experience.
Range: 500 feet/152 m.
Cost: Five P.P.E. to permanently acquire it; one P.P.E. per 
every 1D4 points of damage.
Shadow Shield
Creates a force field of dark energy around the Nightbane, providing 20 S.D.C. per 2 P.P.E. spent (P.P.E. spent cannot exceed 
4 per level of experience). The Shadow Shield completely surrounds the character, protecting him from toxic gases, disease, 
punches, bullets, heat, fire, and similar dangers as long as it remains in force; it is the shield that takes the damage inflicted by 
such attacks.
Duration: 30 minutes per level of experience or until all the 
S.D.C. of the shadow shield is used up.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Maximum of 40 
S.D.C. per level of experience.
Cost: Seven P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; two P.P.E. to 
activate Shadow Shield with 20 S.D.C., plus 2 P.P.E. for each 
additional 20 S.D.C. Cannot exceed 40 S.D.C. per level of experience.
Sharing the Flesh
This is a strange and horrific healing spell. The Nightbane 
touches an injured person to magically transfer the other person’s 
wounds, injury and pain to himself. The person being healed falls 
into a coma or sleep that lasts 1D4 melee rounds and then awakens 
completely well. The effect if often gruesome, with nasty wounds 
spontaneously appearing on the Nightbane as the subject is being 
healed. The Nightbane can transfer as much damage as he or she 
can tolerate, which may be a little amount to all. This is actually a 
painful sacrifice on the part of the Nightbane as he/she heals as normal – fortunately, these creature heal rapidly compared to humans.
Limitations: Usable only while in the Morphus form and 
the Nightbane must perform this act of sacrifice of his own free 
will. Healing critically injured/comatose characters requires the 
Nightbane to temporarily expend 24 P.P.E. points and 100 of 
his S.D.C. and/or Hit Points to stabilize the injured person and 
heal the most serious injuries (brings the character up to 2D6 Hit 
Points). However, the pain and shock to his system will put the 
Nightbane in a coma for 2D4x10 minutes. A Nightbane with less 
than 100 S.D.C./Hit Points available at the time can perform the 
same healing but will die in the process.
Cost: Two P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 8 to activate (see 
above for coma cases).
The Shroud
This powerful Talent enables a Nightbane to become invisible and noiseless to normal vision and senses as well as to electronic devices like cameras, motion detectors, heat sensors, etc. 
This ability can be used selectively, enabling some people to see 
the character while others can’t. Vengeful Nightbane have been 
known to drive a human insane by pursuing him in plain sight, 
invisible to everyone else. The victim’s cries for help would be 
useless, for nobody else can see the monsters threatening him!
The power is very expensive to maintain for long periods of 
time (10 P.P.E. per minute). Also, the moment the Nightbane attacks anybody (he can threaten, scream or make gestures all he 
wants), the Talent stops working and he becomes visible for all to 
see. Likewise, a Nightbane actively engaged in combat or other 
activity, or standing in plain sight, cannot activate this Talent to 
disappear. First, he must get out of sight.
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus.
Cost: Twelve P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 10 P.P.E. to 
activate per each minute in effect.
Shadow Slide
The Nightbane must be in Morphus form for this power to 
work. The character becomes an insubstantial shadow, or, more 
accurately, like one of those mirages you can see on a paved road 
during a sunny day – a flickering shadow that seems to sink into 
the earth and fades away as if it never was. While in this twodimensional form, the Nightbane can slither along walls or across 
the ground, virtually invisible and able to slide through any opening, no matter how narrow (only air-tight containers will prevent 
the shadow-slider from coming through). The Nightbane’s clothing and small personal effects are transformed automatically; 
additionally, he can carry objects at an additional P.P.E. cost (2 
P.P.E. per pound/0.45 kg of weight).
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Cost: Eight P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 10 points to activate and 10 per each minute the Talent is maintained.
Soul Shield
Protects against mental attacks/probes and the See Truth Talent. The Soul Shield acts like a psychic mind block, preventing 
most means of magical or psionic probes from intruding into the 
Nightbane’s mind. More importantly, while the Soul Shield is 
up, any spell or power that tries to control or dominate the Nightbane’s mind will automatically fail.Those who attempt to read the protected character’s mind will 
see only a pool of utter darkness. The mind reader/psychic will 
find it very difficult to pry himself from that darkness (a save 
versus psionics is necessary; roll every melee round), and until he 
does, he will be unable to do anything other than stare vacantly 
into space.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only.
Duration: One hour.
Cost: Six P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 4 to activate.
Splittin’ Image
This powerful ability enables the Nightbane to separate his 
Facade and Morphus forms and act normally in both of them! 
The Nightbane in effect becomes two people. The character 
is aware of what both sides are doing, but his consciousness 
must be focused on one form or the other (he can switch viewpoints at will). The form where his consciousness is focused 
on acts normally; the other appears to lapse into a trance-like 
state and is at -2 to all combat and Perception Rolls, has half 
the normal attacks per melee round, and is at -40% to perform 
any skills.
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus only. Not available 
until 5th level.
Duration: One or more hours depending on the amount of 
P.P.E. expended. The character can merge back into one body 
at will.
Cost: Fifteen P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 20 to activate 
it for one hour and 10 P.P.E. per each additional hour (can spend 
the P.P.E. “up front” or as needed).
Storm Maker
This powerful talent enables the Nightbane to control the 
weather. Rain, winds and the temperature can be altered. The 
more extreme the changes and the greater the area affected, the 
more P.P.E. the character must spend. This talent is particularly 
powerful because two or more Nightbane who know it can combine their efforts (and P.P.E.) to produce an even more powerful 
effect. There are legends of ancient Nightbane groups sending 
hurricanes and tornadoes against people who offended or injured 
them.
The P.P.E. cost varies; the effects take 1D6x10 minutes to 
manifest, and then lasts one hour. At the end of the hour, the same 
amount of P.P.E. must be spent to keep it going or it fades away. 
Some guidelines are given below:
A minor change in existing weather conditions like raising the wind by up to 5 mph (8 km), increasing or decreasing 
cloudiness, intensifying already existing rain, raising or lowering 
overall temperature by 4 degrees Fahrenheit: 5 P.P.E.
A moderate change of weather conditions like starting rain 
on an overcast day, turning a downpour into a storm or vice versa, 
raising or lowering overall temperature by 10 degrees Fahrenheit: 
10 P.P.E.
Sudden, major change in weather like starting rain during a 
clear, sunny day, stopping a downpour, or creating a major thunder or electrical storm during a rainy day, raising or lowering 
overall temperature by 20 degrees Fahrenheit: 20 P.P.E.
Extreme changes in weather like creating a fog, or starting a 
hailstorm or electrical storm during a clear, sunny day – or turning a storm into a sunny day, turning a thunderstorm into a tropical storm with near-hurricane winds (70 mph/112 km), raising or 
lowering overall temperature by 30 degrees Fahrenheit: 40 P.P.E.
Total upheaval in weather such as starting a hurricane or 
tornado from scratch (90+ mph/144 km winds), create a blinding 
snowstorm, dissipating a hurricane or terrible storm, raising or 
lowering overall temperature by 50 degrees Fahrenheit: 80 P.P.E.
The base area affected has a radius of one mile (1.6 km). 
Each additional mile of radius doubles the previous P.P.E. cost. 
For example: causing a moderate change in the weather costs 10 
P.P.E. for one mile/1.6 km, 20 P.P.E. for two miles (3.2 km), 40 
P.P.E. for three miles/4.8 km, and 80 P.P.E. for a four (mile/6.4 
km) radius.
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available until 
reaching 5th level.
Cost: Twenty P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; P.P.E. cost 
varies as described above.
Elite Talents
from Nightbane® RPG
Bloodbath
Deus Ex Machina
Lord/Lady of the Wild
Swarm Self
These powers have certain prerequisites. For instance, animal 
control abilities apply only to Nightbane who have some elements of those animals in their Morphus.
Elite Talents seem to be an extension of the Nightbane’s selfconception, i.e. a machine-man might see himself capable of 
controlling other machines, but not animals. On the other hand, 
a Biomechanical-animal Nightbane would have access to both 
types of powers.
Bloodbath
This grotesque power allows the Nightbane to use his own 
blood to suffocate victims. A stream of blood pours from the 
character (this inflicts 1D6 points of damage to the character activating the Talent). The Nightbane is at +3 to strike with it. On 
a successful hit, the blood will rush into the victim’s nose andthroat, and cause him to choke! While drowning in blood, the victim is at -2 to all combat actions and is unable to use spells, Talents or any skill that requires concentration. The blood remains 
alive for 1D4 melee rounds, inflicting 2D6 points of damage at 
the end of each melee round. A successful save versus non-lethal 
poison will avoid damage for that round, but the penalties remain. 
Additionally, a victim unfamiliar with that attack must save versus a Horror Factor of 12 to avoid panicking. If panicked, the 
penalties for the victim are doubled.
Prerequisite: At least one characteristic from the Stigmata 
Table.
Limitations: Usable only by the Morphus. Not available until 
the 3rd level.
Duration: 1D4 melee rounds.
Cost: Fifteen P.P.E. for permanent acquisition; 8 to activate 
plus it inflicts 1D6 points of damage on the user.
Deus Ex Machina (Machine Control)
The Nightbane can control machines from cars to microwaves, to lamps or weapons. One device can be controlled for 
every three points of I.Q. he has (thus, a Nightbane with an I.Q. 
13 could control 4 machines). The machines can then be made 
to do anything within their capabilities. For example, a lamp can 
turn itself on or off, but nothing else. A car or a motorcycle could 
start its motor and ride off (until it left the range of the effect). 
While the Nightbane can control several machines, only one of 
them can be directly controlled on an action-by-action basis. The 
remaining mechanisms can be given a general order for the rest 
of the round.
Example: The aforementioned Nightbane is trapped in a 
house by a number of NSB agents. Trying to create a diversion, 
he activates Deus Ex Machina and takes control of four machines, 
including a desktop computer, a laser printer, a lawn mower just 
outside the house, and a lamp on the desk. He first orders the office machines to start the diversion, the lamp will turn itself on 
and off for a melee round, the computer will start making noise at 
the top of its Soundblaster speakers, and the laser printer will start 
spitting blank pieces of paper. As the NSB are distracted by the 
noises coming from the office, the Nightbane takes full control 
of the lawn mower and sends it roaring into their midst! As the 
agents shoot the hapless machine to pieces, the Nightbane quietly 
slips out the back. In a pinch, the character can also seize control 
of guns and even explosive devices to prevent them from firing 
(or detonating) or to shoot (explode) whether the user wants them 
to or not.
Prerequisite: At least one Biomechanical characteristic.
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Not available until 
the third level.
Duration of Control: One minute.
Range: 300 feet (91.4 m).
Cost: Twelve P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 4 to activate plus 
6 for each additional minute of control or 20 for an additional 100 
foot (30.5 m) radius of control.
Lord/Lady of the Wild
(Animal Control)
The Nightbane gains mastery over any animal species he/she 
is associated with; thus, a wolf-life Nightbane will be able to control wolves and any canine animal, while a bird-like character 
would gain powers over all birds. The power has variable range 
and effects, depending on the amount of P.P.E. the Nightbane 
spends. Simple commands like “Come here,” “Attack this man,” 
“Go,” or “Make a lot of noise” will be readily heeded. A character with this power can also make animals behave in unnatural 
ways, like attacking armed men, something most animals will 
never do, dance in circles, leap through a wall of fire, etc., but 
this will cost more P.P.E. Some guidelines are described below:
Calling animals: Any animals of the appropriate species will 
come from up to a one mile (1.6 km) radius per level of experience: Costs 2 P.P.E. Once they get there, the animals will revert 
to normal unless new commands are given.
Minor, non-dangerous actions: Like making noise, hiding, 
fluttering about, or acting in fairly normal ways: Costs 1 P.P.E. 
per large animal or per group of up to ten small animals (rat/
pigeon-sized or smaller).
Dangerous actions: Threatening humans, bite/attack, leap 
at, block or otherwise hindering armed humans, or behavior that 
goes against the animal’s normal behavior (asking a nocturnal 
animal to operate in the daytime, etc.): Costs 5 P.P.E. per large 
animal or per group of up to ten small animals.
Suicidal actions: Recklessly attacking humans or supernatural beings, intercepting vehicles (a flock of birds can bring down 
a plane by flying into its engines), fight to the death, and other 
suicidal or utterly unnatural acts: Costs 10 P.P.E. per large animal 
or per group of up to ten small animals.
Prerequisite: At least one characteristic from the Animal 