Plant Life Table II
A Nightbane with any of these features takes the phrase “green 
thumb” to a whole new level. The character may be a student of 
botany, an environmental activist, or just has fond memories of 
Grandpa’s garden or camping weekends. Whatever the reason-
ing, some aspect of the plant kingdom is represented within the 
Morphus form. Note: As with the original Plant Life Table (see 
Nightbane® Sourcebook 2: Nightlands or the Morphus Appen-
dix at the back of this sourcebook), a Nightbane with features 
from this table takes double damage from fire and half damage 
from cold. Defoliants and herbicides also act as lethal poisons if 
the Nightbane comes into contact with them, dealing an average 
of 3D6 damage direct to Hit Points per 12 fluid ounces (355 ml) 
on a failed save vs lethal poison (14 or higher to save); half the 
damage on a successful save.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-10% Fern Fronds: Growing from the head, shoulders, 
and back of the Morphus form are long stems with tiny leaves. 
These fronds cascade down the sides of the head and the back like 
long, flowing hair. The most common colors are green, brown, 
yellow, and blue. Bonuses: The fronds allow the Nightbane to 
subsist completely on sunlight and water. As long as the charac-
ter gets at least 14 hours of sunlight per week, no other food is 
needed. If less sunlight exposure is obtained, it must be supple-
mented with solid food. The foliage also makes pretty good cam-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
48
ouflage in wooded environments, adding a +5% bonus to Prowl, 
and +1 to Awe/Horror Factor. Penalties: The character must get 
at least two hours of sunlight per week. Every week without it 
reduces the P.S. and P.E. attributes by three and the S.D.C. of the 
Morphus form by 30. If any of these stats reaches zero, the Mor-
phus becomes unavailable until there is sunlight to be had. This 
need for sunlight does not apply while in the Nightlands. -20% 
on skills like Disguise, Impersonation, Performance, Seduction 
and Undercover Ops.
11-20% Vines: Winding around the arms, legs, and torso of 
the Morphus are a number of clinging vines. While not prehen-
sile, these fibrous lengths can serve as whips, lassoes, and climb-
ing ropes. They can even be torn off in 3-30 foot (0.9 to 9.1 m) 
sections to bind captives, secure cargo, use as rope, etc. Taken 
together, there is roughly 120 feet (36.6 m) of vines covering the 
character. Bonuses: +1 to the P.E. attribute and +3D6+6 S.D.C. 
The vines have 20 S.D.C. per foot (0.3 m) and regrow if removed 
at the rate of one foot (0.3 m) per hour. If used as a lasso, bind-
ings, etc., the vine holds with half the Supernatural Physical 
Strength of the Nightbane. As a whip, the vines deal 3D6 damage 
with a maximum reach of 20 feet (6.1 m) and a +1 bonus to strike 
and disarm. +5% to the Camouflage and Climbing skills. Penal-
ties: -2 to the P.S. attribute and -1D6 from base P.P.E.
21-30% Nutshell: The character is, quite literally, a tough 
nut to crack. The skin becomes a thick, woody shell reminiscent 
of a walnut or coconut. Bonuses: +2 to the P.E. attribute and 
+2D4x10+20 S.D.C. with a Natural A.R. of 12. Penalties: -2 to 
the P.P., P.B. and Spd attributes, and -5% skill penalty on those 
requiring delicate work or a light touch, including Art, Forgery, 
Palming, Pick Pockets, etc., and a -15% penalty on skills like 
Disguise, Impersonation, Performance, Seduction and Under-
cover Ops.
31-40% Itch-Weed: The skin of the Nightbane’s Morphus 
form is green and has a waxy sheen to it. Part of this sheen is 
the chemical irritant constantly secreted by the character. This ir-
ritant is essentially a powerful version of the substance produced 
by plants such as Poison Ivy and Poison Oak. Bonuses: +1 to 
Horror Factor, resistant to poison (half damage, duration and pen-
alties on a failed saving throw), and -15% on skills like Disguise, 
Impersonation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
Poisonous Skin (special): Within 1D4 melee rounds of contact 
with exposed skin (and a failed save vs non-lethal poison of 16 or 
greater is necessary), any place an opponent has been touched by 
the Nightbane turns a bright red and begins to itch and burn. This 
causes victims to lose 2 attacks per melee round and imposes a -2 
penalty on all combat rolls and a -10% penalty to all skills. These 
effects last for 2D6 minutes. Double the penalties and duration 
against the Nightlords and the denizens of the Nightlands. Penal-
ties: -1 to the M.A. attribute, -2D6 S.D.C., and -1D6 base P.P.E.
41-50% Moss Monster: Growing over every part of the char-
acter is one of several varieties of moss. This clinging plant cov-
ers most if not all of the Nightbane’s features, making for great 
natural camouflage. It even softens the sounds of movement and 
the appearance of the character’s tracks. If standing completely 
still in places such as graveyards, ancient ruins, and parks, the 
‘Bane might even pass for an old statue. Bonuses: +1 to the P.S. 
and P.E. attributes and +4D6 to S.D.C., +1 to Horror Factor and 
+20% to the Prowl and Camouflage skills outdoors in fields, tall 
grass and woodlands. Penalties: -1 to the M.A. attribute, reduce 
Spd by half, and -20% penalty on skills like Disguise, Imperson-
ation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
51-60% Venus Flytrap: The Venus flytrap is a small, 
carnivorous plant that survives by catching insects in a wide, 
mouth-like opening and dissolving them for food. This Night-
bane is essentially a giant version of the normal plant (think 
“Little Shop of Horrors”). Legs and feet are replaced by bun-
dles of roots that form 4-8 appendages and provide locomotion. 
Likewise, rudimentary hands and arms are formed out of leafy 
vines. The body becomes a relatively thin stalk which has sev-
eral leafy offshoots.
The head of the plant Morphus with its giant maw is the de-
fining feature of this Morphus form, as it is the part that opens 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
49
up to snap up and hold prey. When closed, the plant head is 
relatively thin, and appears to be two curved leaves with spiny 
edges that curl together to form the massive maw. The whole 
“head” opens up to reveal the mouth. This mouth can open 180 
degrees so that the spines or “teeth” all face the same direction 
and is large enough to easily swallow animals as big as a large 
dog or wolf, a child, or half of a man. There are no visible 
eyes, ears, or nose, but the Nightbane is able to see, hear, and 
smell. In addition, the inside of the mouth is equipped with 
motion-sensitive fibers that are fine-tuned enough to pick up 
movement within 20 feet (6.1 m) of the Nightbane, so penal-
ties for darkness/blindness are only -2 (not -10). Bonuses: +2 
to the M.E. and P.S. attributes, +1 on initiative, +2 to strike/
bite, +1 to parry and entangles with vine arms, +4 to save 
vs gas attacks, +2 to Horror Factor, and +1D6x10 to S.D.C. 
(Note: The giant plant head/maw/flytrap has 4D6+50 S.D.C. 
all by itself, and if destroyed, forces the Nightbane to turn 
back into his Facade. The head/flytrap regrows completely af-
ter 1D4+1 hours. The head takes damage only when targeted 
with a Called Shot.) Bite Attack: 3D6 damage per bite, each 
bite counts as one melee attack. What makes the bite attack 
so dangerous is that the Venus flytrap, holds its prey (or part 
of him) inside the maw where it secretes digestive acid to kill 
and dissolve it! The powerful bite holds its prey tight in a vise-
like grip that requires twice the flytrap’s Supernatural P.S. to 
pry open. (Reducing the Nightbane’s Hit Points to three or 
less causes the flytrap head to open and release its prey.) The 
mouth can also hold prey, covering up to half of a human-
sized target, while digestive juices inflict 2D6 damage per 
melee round (15 seconds)! Double damage to Nightlords and 
the denizens of the Nightlands. Penalties: -3 to the M.A. attri-
bute, -4 to P.B., and -6 to Spd. The use of ranged weapons and 
most machinery is impossible and -30% to any skill requiring 
the use of hands (Art, Climbing, Computer Operation, Pick 
Locks, etc.). Skills like Acrobatics, Disguise, Impersonation, 
Performance, Prowl, Seduction, Undercover Ops, Piloting/
driving, etc., are impossible to use in this Morphus. While the 
character is unable to swim as a giant plant, it does float on the 
surface of water indefinitely unless weighed down.
61-70% Seed/Spore Pods: Dotting the exterior of the Mor-
phus, 2D6+2 small pods or seed clusters protrude from the skin. 
While seemingly innocuous, any or all of these pods can be 
popped or broken apart at the will of the Nightbane to fill the 
surrounding area with tiny spores or seeds. Wrestling with this 
character is also likely to break one or more of the pods (55% 
chance), as they only have 2 S.D.C. each. Once the particles 
contained within are released, they cover a 6 foot (1.8 m) radius 
around the character for 1D4 melee rounds. Bonuses: +1 to the 
P.E. attribute, +2D6 to S.D.C., +1 to save vs poison, and Spore 
Attack, below. -10% on skills like Disguise, Impersonation, Per-
formance, Seduction and Undercover Ops. Penalties: -2 to the 
P.E. and P.B. attribute and -1D6 from base P.P.E.
Spore Attack: The spore/seed clouds impair vision and breath-
ing as they get caught in the eyes, nose, and throat. Anyone in a 
seed cloud except for the Nightbane, himself, loses initiative and 
one attack and are -2 on all combat rolls and -10% to skill perfor-
mance due to hacking and coughing. Duration 1D4 melee rounds 
even after leaving the cloud of spores.
71-80% Fungus/Mushrooms: A variety of small to medium-
sized mushrooms grow on the back, neck, shoulders, upper arms, 
and perhaps on the head of the Nightbane instead of hair. Each 
has its own effect, which is activated by picking the fungus and 
getting the intended victim or recipient to consume the mush-
room (or placed on a corpse). Bonuses: +3 to save vs poisons/
toxins, +2D6 S.D.C., and mushrooms with varying effects. Pen-
alties: -2 to the P.B. and Spd attributes, and reduce the permanent 
base P.P.E. by 2D6 points, and -20% on skills like Disguise, Im-
personation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
The Types of Mushrooms:
2D4 Decomposing Mushrooms (dark brown top, grey stem): 
One decomposing mushroom placed on a dead body completely 
devours the corpse within 1D6 melee rounds.
1D6+2 Deadly Mushrooms (red top and black underside): 
3D6 damage direct to Hit Points per each mushroom eaten. Must 
be ingested. A successful save vs lethal poison reduces the dam-
age by half (round down).
1D6+4 Debilitating Poison Mushrooms (white with brown 
highlights): Poison mushrooms taste delicious, but are poisonous 
when eaten. Even eating just one causes vomiting and stomach 
cramps (-1 attack, -2 to all combat rolls and bonuses, reduce Spd 
by 20%, and -15% on skill performance). Duration of penalites: 
20 minutes per each mushroom eaten.
1D6+4 Edible Mushrooms (tan): One edible mushroom pro-
vides the nourishment of a single meal.
1D6+2 Medicinal Mushrooms (pale green top and stem): This 
small green mushroom resembles a bulbous green button. Eat-
ing one settles an upset stomach, stops vomiting, cures heartburn/
acid indigestion, can help with a hangover (reduces duration by 
half), and restores 1D4 lost Hit Points caused by poison of any 
kind. In the case of curing poison, each mushroom consumed re-
stores 1D6 Hit Points, but only damage caused by poison.
Note: Any fungus that is plucked, eaten or otherwise used or 
destroyed regrows in 24 hours.
81-90% Fruit-Bearing Vines: Leafy vines covers the 
Nightbane’s body. Hanging under the arms and from vines 
covering the body are 6D6+10 small fruits, like berries or 
grapes located in clusters. These fruits can be real fruit of al-
most any kind, but typically berries (raspberries, blueberries, 
blackberries, and even small apples, small pears, plums, figs, 
tangerines and mangoes). They might also be completely 
fictional varieties but taste like one of the above. The fruit 
can be picked and eaten, given away as a treat, or thrown 
to attract attention (only the larger, harder fruit like an ap-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
50
ple, pear, tangerine or mango do one point of damage when 
thrown hard). The fruit is one of the Nightbane’s favorites 
and he regularly munches on it, but is likely to get angry 
with anyone who picks the fruit without asking. Fruits that 
are eaten, lost or destroyed regrow in 24 hours. Bonuses: +1 
to the I.Q. and M.A. attributes, +4D6 to S.D.C. If thrown, 
berries only have a range of 20 feet (6.1 m) and do no dam-
age, but splatter on impact and make a mess which could (on 
a Called Shot) obscure the vision of goggles, visors, cam-
era lenses and windows until washed away with water. Fruit 
juice and pulp smear when simply wiped away with a hand 
or towel, causing a wider amount of obstruction of vision. 
Even if semi-transparent/semi-opaque, the smear is annoying 
and impairs vision (-2 to strike, parry, dodge, and disarm; 
-1 on Perception Rolls that require sight). Only the larger, 
heavier fruit do a single point of damage and have a throwing 
range of 100 feet (30.5 m). As a tougher fruit, they are less 
likely to leave behind a smear that impairs vision (01-20% 
chance). Eating eight berries, or one of the larger fruit like 
an apple, provides the equivalent nourishment of a full meal, 
and fruit on the Nightbane is always fresh, tasty, and edible. 
Penalties: -1 to the P.P. and Spd attributes, -1D4 from the 
permanent base P.P.E., and -20% on skills like Disguise, Im-
personation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover Ops.
91-00% Sap: The Nightbane has a tough, brown or green-
ish-brown skin that feels like an onion stalk, or it may have 
a light bark texture to it. Rather than blood and normal body 
fluids, the Nightbane’s Morphus bleeds a thick, sticky sap. The 
same sap can be produced from the mouth (half a handful per 
melee action, the creation of each gob counts as one melee at-
tack) and has a variety of uses. Bonuses: +2 to the P.E. attribute 
and +6D6 S.D.C., resistant to heat and cold (half damage, but 
fire and magic cold do full damage), impervious to diseases, 
poisons, toxins and smoke that would affect humans, only poi-
son/toxins that harm plant life hurt this Nightbane and even they 
only do half damage. If pierced or cut by a weapon there is a 
50% chance it will become stuck in the character. For anyone 
but the Nightbane to free it requires a combined Supernatural 
P.S. of 30 and takes two attacks; the Nightbane can remove it 
with ease, though the blade will have sap on it which could 
make it stick to the next thing it touches, get stuck inside its 
scabbard if put away with the sap blood on it, etc. The sap can 
be used in place of glue to repair items, seal wounds, and to help 
hold onto objects and opponents (+3 to entangle and disarm an 
opponent, -2 for the Nightbane to be disarmed, and +15% to 
the Climbing and Palming skills.) The sap is also incredibly 
difficult to wash off so it can be used to mark a trail. To wash it 
off requires soap and hot (not cold or warm) water and plenty of 
elbow grease. Penalties: -1 to the P.P., P.E. and P.B. attributes, 
-2D4 to the permanent base P.P.E., and -10% on skills like Dis-
guise, Impersonation, Performance, Seduction and Undercover 
Ops.