Infernal Table
This character may have been fascinated with mythology and
tales about demonic supernatural beings. Or he may believe
himself to be cursed, possessed, unwanted, unloved, or just plain
“bad.” In the latter cases, an abusive parent or guardian might
have constantly told him he was bad, or that he had the devil in
him, or always rejected him. Thus, this Nightbane may struggle
with his dark side and struggle against becoming evil, or he may
seek to destroy evil, or he may embrace and become evil. If this
91
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Morphus table is selected or randomly rolled, the player may
elect to change his alignment to Anarchist, Aberrant or Miscreant. Note: Holy Weapons inflict 50% more damage to all characters rolled up on the Infernal Table, and they are likely to
want to avoid churches and sacred places.
01-10% Demon Claw: The Morphus gives the character a
demonic appearance: The face is an evil or twisted version of
his own, the skin is a gray, pale white, sickly green, or red color,
1D4 small horns appear in the center of the forehead, 1D4 larger
horns protrude from the temples or top of the head, another
small or medium sized horn protrudes from the jaw, the eyes
glow when angry, and the voice is distorted in a strange and
frightening manner (raspy, unnaturally deep, or sounds like he is
gargling while speaking). However, the most startling change is
the hands and forearms are ugly, gnarled limbs, with skin like
dry leather and long, withered fingers that end in six inch (0.15
m), blade-like claws. A pair of medium-sized horns also protrude from the shoulders. Bonuses: +1D6x10 to S.D.C., +1 on
initiative, +1 to strike and parry, +2D6 to damage with a claw
attack in addition to Supernatural P.S. punch damage, can parry
blades and other weapons with bare hands without injury, +2 to
Horror Factor but only when speaking, and +5% to Interrogation
skill. Penalties: -1D4 to P.B., -25% to all skills requiring a delicate touch or nimble fingers, as well as those requiring charisma
and trust such as Barter and Seduction, and -40% to Disguise
and Undercover Ops.
11-20% Shadow Demon: The Morphus is humanoid with
dark gray skin, a pair of bull-like horns that project from the
forehead and dark eyes that glow red at the center when angry
or in combat. Even in broad daylight or under a spotlight, deep
shadows creep and crawl across his body as if they were alive,
and they always obscure half to two-thirds of the Nightbane’s
face and body, making it impossible to discern his entire features or clearly identify what he may be holding or wearing. Bonuses: +2D6 to S.D.C., suffers half damage and effect from
magic and Talents involving shadows and darkness, +20% to
Escape Artist, Concealment, and Palming skills, +20% to Prowl
and Tailing but only in darkness, and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
Penalties: -1D4 to M.A., -1 to P.B., -20% to Prowl in well lit
conditions, -30% to all skills requiring charisma and trust such
as Barter and Seduction, and impossible to Disguise and Undercover Ops.
21-30% Feral Monster: The character looks rather like a
minotaur, with a pair of large ram or bull horns, red, gray or
black skin, muscular arms and upper body, hairy legs, and a face
that is more like that of a rabid, wild animal (goat or bull) than
human. The character almost always looks angry or upset, with
teeth clenched, furrowed brows, flared nostrils, and a voice that
is more like a growl. Bonuses: +2D4x10+16 to S.D.C., +1D6 to
P.S., +1 to P.E., +13% to intimidate others, +13% to Interrogation skill, a bite attack does 2D4 damage, head butt does 2D6
damage plus the usual P.S. punch damage, and +1D4 to Horror
Factor. Penalties: -1D4 from M.E., reduce Spd by 10%, double
weight, increase size/height 20%, impossible to disguise and engage in Undercover Ops, and likely to require custom-made
clothes.
31-40% Cloven Hooved Beast: The Morphus is reminiscent
of the classic devil image, that of a humanoid with red skin,
snake eyes, black hair, a small pair of goat or ram’s horns protruding from the forehead, and the legs and cloven feet of a
goat. Bonuses: +1D6x10 to S.D.C., +1 to P.P., +2D4+4 to Spd,
can leap 12 feet (3.6 m) high and across (double with a running
start), +10% to balance, +1D6 damage to all kick attacks and +1
to Horror Factor. Penalties: Impossible to Disguise and engage
in Undercover Ops, and likely to require custom-made clothes.
41-50% Fire & Brimstone: The Morphus is a humanoid
with a pair of small horns, dry, cracked yellow or tan skin, and
flaming red hair. Heat vapors rise from the head and shoulders
and radiates with the faint smell of brimstone which is a combination of garlic, burning flesh and rotten eggs. Even as a faint
smell it can be nauseating, and everyone within a 20 foot (6.1
m) radius must roll a 10 or higher to save vs nausea. A failed
roll means the character’s stomach is queasy and any sudden
movement has a 50% chance of making him throw up. When
this ‘Bane is angry or in combat, the stench intensifies and those
around him must roll a 16 or higher every minute of exposure or
suffer from nausea and vomiting. A failed save means the victim
is -1 on all combat rolls, -10% on skill performance, and reduce
Spd by 50% (going any faster causes vomiting). Vomiting
causes the victim to lose initiative and 1D4 melee attacks. Bonuses: +5D6 to S.D.C., resistant to heat and fire (half damage),
impervious to foul odors, gas, and airborne toxins/poison, +4 to
save vs all other types of poisons, and +1 to Horror Factor. Penalties: -1D4 to M.A. and P.B. This character literally stinks of
death and brimstone, Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible.
51-60% Demon Eyes: The Morphus is a red-skinned devil,
with medium-sized horns projecting from the forehead, demonic
features, forked tongue, and a devil’s tail. The most distinguishing feature is the Nightbane’s eyes which are capable of a chilling gaze, as if he were looking into your very soul. Eye color is
typically a glacial blue, smoldering red or purple, or dead black.
Bonuses: +5D6 to S.D.C., +2 to Perception Rolls, +10% to intimidation, Interrogation and Seduction rolls, +1 to Horror Factor, perfect, 20/20 vision, Nightvision 2000 feet (610 m), see the
invisible, see aura (same as the psionic ability) and cannot be
magically or psionically blinded. Penalties: Blinded by intense,
bright light, Disguise and Undercover Ops are impossible, and
the character always has a sinister or dangerous expression on
his face; -1D4 to M.A.
61-70% Mark of the Profane: The Morphus is a burly
demon with brownish-gray skin covered in scars and the symbol
of an upside down cross as if it were carved or branded into his
flesh. These markings of the “profane” cover his entire body, including the head and neck, and a pentagram is etched across his
full chest and back. Bonuses: +3D6x10 to S.D.C., Natural A.R.
of 11, +1D4 to P.S., +1D4 to Horror Factor, +3 to save vs magic
that involves mind control, domination or pain, +1 to save vs all
other types of magic, inflicts 50% greater bite, punch, and claw
attack damage to Guardians and supernatural beings of light.
Penalties: Holy symbols have a Horror Factor of 13 (usual effects), Holy Weapons inflict double damage, and dislikes and
distrusts clergy, angelic beings, Guardians, and gods of light.
71-80% The Mask of Darkness: The Morphus appears
mostly human, only the face is covered with what appears to be
a strange or exotic and elaborate mask, plus the body is covered
in black, dark gray or blood red patterns that wrap around the
arms, legs and torso. The mask is often leather and demonic or
92
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
monstrous in appearance with horns, spikes, fins, or ribbing, but
it may also be made of feathers, or strips of cloth, or porcelain.
The mask conceals the character’s identity and cannot be removed. Inscribed on the Nightbane’s chest or back as well as
the shoulders or forearms is a strange symbol which the ‘Bane
believes marks him as an agent of destruction – a deathbringer
to the Nightlords. Bonuses: +2D6x10 S.D.C., +2D6 P.P.E. per
level of experience, +1 to all saving throws, and attacks leveled
by the ‘Bane at Night Princes, Nightlords and demons inflict
50% more damage. Penalties: -2 from M.A., impossible to Disguise and engage in Undercover Ops.
81-90% Burning Soul of Hell: The Morphus is a humanoid
whose skin seems to be composed of, or covered with, hot coals.
This makes the skin a hard, blotchy and mottled ash gray color
with bits of glowing red from hot embers. Flakes of ash drop
from the character when he moves quickly, the air visibly shimmers around him from heat vapors, and he burns to the touch.
Only the palms of his hands, the underside of his fingers, soles
of his feet, and the front and cheeks of his face are not hot, but
the rest burns like hot coals, as does his inner spirit, making
most Nightbane with this Morphus hot-tempered, aggressive
and quick to action. Bonuses: +2D6x10 to S.D.C., Natural A.R.
12, +1 on initiative, impervious to heat and fire (including
magic fire; no damage), and +2 to Horror Factor. Burning touch
does 1D4 damage, burning punch does 2D6 damage plus Supernatural P.S. damage. When others punch/touch the character
even for a moment, they are burned and suffer 1D4 damage. To
grab and hold the Burning Soul inflicts 2D6 damage per melee
action (i.e. every 3 seconds). Penalties: Increase weight by 30%
and size by 10%, water, ice and cold attacks inflict double damage, rain does 1D6 damage per melee round, being immersed in
water does 6D6 damage per melee round when in this Morphus
form; no damage in Facade, but probably doesn’t care for water.
91-00% Living Weapon: The Morphus appears as demonic
humanoid with jet black skin, fangs, glowing eyes, clawed fingers, and a pair of large horns. The Nightbane’s entire body is a
living weapon. The shoulders are covered in 2D4+2 spikes,
blades, or horns, blade-like fins line the forearms, the fingernails
and toenails are sickle-shaped claws, the teeth are pointed and
the canines are fangs. A single bone-like stabbing blade can be
extended from the right forearm to be used as a short spear or
sword. Moreover, 1D4+1 long strips of flesh hang from the left
forearm. At the end of these strips are needle-sharp barbs that
can be used like a whip to lash at the enemy, entangle, or climb
like a whip. 1D4 spikes jut from the knees. Bonuses: +3D6 to
S.D.C., +1 attack per melee, +1 to parry, disarm and entangle,
+2 to pull punch. +1D6 damage to melee attacks using any body
weapon, bites do 2D6 damage, +1D4+1 to Horror Factor.