73 
For the duration of the spell, whoever looks in the mirror sees an im­
age reflective of their fears and worries. This means a character who 
fears he or she is getting old and/or weak may see a frail, skeletal figure 
barely able to stand; a character afraid of defeat may see himself beaten 
and battered or in chai ns; a character afraid of the Nightlords may see 
one or more lurking in the shadows (of the mirror image ); a character 
afraid of death may see a reflection of himself as a corpse or with his 
throat cut or bleeding from a bullet wound in the chest. A character, 
such as a Nightbane, with a secret identity or other dark secret may see 
it revealed in the reflection (a Nightbane may simply see his or her 
Morphus reflected back) and so on. 
The gli mpse of what they fear will set the adrenaline rushing and 
may elicit a "fear response" equal to a horror factor of 14; a momentary 
fright, and perhaps a bit of insigh t into themselves. 
A character who has a phobia will see his!her greatest fear (if bugs, 
s!he may see himself bound by rope or chains and covered in them, or 
insects infesting wounds or crawling out of his mouth, etc.) The sight 
will elicit the same fear response as the real thing. 
Note: Each person gazing into the mirror only sees what he or she 
most fears or whatever is the character 's current fear, anxiety or worry . 
The fears of others are not revealed to strangers. 
Scrying Mirror: Lesser 
Range: 2 miles (3.2 km) per level of experie nce. 
Durati on: One minute per level of experie nce. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E .: 20 
This spell allows a Mirrormage to look into a mirror or reflective 
surface, and to see through it as if looking out from behind any other 
mirror or reflective surface anywhere within range ! So, the magician 
may look into the mirrored sunglasses of the man next to him on the bus 
in order to see out of the chrome trim on his cooker at home (answe ring 
the vital question, "did I leave the oven on?") , or may look into a mirror 
at home in order to see out of the ballroom mirror in that dusty old man­
sion a mile away . 
The only restrictions in the use of the spell are that: 1. The Mirror­
mage may only look out of mirrors which s!he has already seen (s!he 
cannot look out of a mirror which s!he has simply heard about, and if 
the target mirror is not exactly where the mage expects then the spell 
will not wor k). 2. The Mirrormage can only view a single sequence of 
events as they happen, not past or future events, and s!he cannot "fast­
forward" or skip dull periods. 3. Only true mirror surfaces can be used. 
Looking into a pane of ordinary glass (even though one can see himself) 
is not a true mirrored surface and cannot be used. So one cannot spy 
into an office buil ding or home by magically looking out from the glass 
of a window or a highly polished, metal plaque or trophy. 
Casting this spell as a ritual increases both range and duration ten­
fold. Takes 20 minutes to preform. 
LEVEL FIVE 
Draw Upon the Mirrorwall 
Range: Self 
Duration : Instant 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: Spec ial: 10 P.P.E. the first time, but add ID 6 for each sub­
sequent use within a 12 hour period. Rather quickly, this spell becomes 
useless or risky . 
The Mirrormage can draw upon a limited amount of the myst ical en­
ergy that flows in the Mirrorwall by gazing into a mirror, concentrating 
and expending 10 P.P.E. of his own. This creates a pinhole to the Mir­
rorwall in which the character can attempt to draw additional P.P.E. en­
ergy to supplement his or her own. This is always a crap shoot as the 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)