amount of energy one can draw into oneself is always random: 5D6 
P.P.E. - and one may expend more to cast the spell than s/he gets back 
in return. Whatever P.P.E. returns to the mage, s/he can hold on to it for 
five minutes per level of experience. If it's not used in magic before that 
time elapses, the P.P.E. syphoned from the Mirrorwall disa ppears . 
Note: Frequent use of this spell may tear a hole into the Mirrorwall 
and/or open a dimensional portal (Too? G. M.'s choic e). 
Hidden Reflection 
Range: Self 
Duration : One minute per level of experience. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E. : 25 
The spell caster can literally step into a mirror to hide ! Even if some­
body looks directly into the mirror, the character hidden ins ide is a sub­
tle part of the the background, and barely noticeable unless s/he moves 
or lunges forward (can only leap out of the mirror, and cannot attack or 
pull in the person looking in) . While in the mirror, the character can see 
and hear everything as if s/he were standing in front of it, but cannot 
communicate, attack, or use magic or psionic s. 
The danger of this spell is that if the mirror is shattered, the charac­
ter's grasp of reality is also shattered and his or her life esse nce could 
be hurled into another plane of exi stence or destroyed ! Roll on the fol­
lowing table when shattered: 
01-20 Hurled into the Dreamstream. The physical body is perma­
nently destroyed, and the character 's mind and spirit becomes a phan­
tom-li ke creature who haunts the dreams of others . 
21 -30 Body, mind and soul are hurled into the Astral Plane. Finding 
one's way back to the physical plane (without an Astral Guide) is slim 
to none (0 1 -06% chance) . Will perish from starvation and thirst within 
4D4 days unless a denizen of the Astral Plane can be convinced to take 
the character home (at what price ?). If the physical. body dies on the As­
tral Plane , there is a 01 -40% chance of becoming an Astral Being (no 
physical body; must spend the rest of his/her days in the Astral Plane). 
31 -40 Trapped in a broken shard of the mirror for what seems to be 
days, but is really only 2D6 hours . Finall y, reappears whole and un­
harmed; roll on the table listed under 61 -80, below, for aftereffects. 
41-60 Hurled into the Nightland s. The character is physically and 
mentally unharmed, but is trapped in the homeland of the Nightlor ds. 
The only way back is to know how to Mirrorwalk (or simila r magic) or 
find somebody to take him or her home (for what price ?). 
61 -80 White noise and swirling images seem to last an eternity as 
the character 's body feels as if it 's being dis solve d into atoms. Sud­
denly , s/he is standing in front of the shattered mirror 3D4 minutes after 
it was smashed. S/he is physica lly whole and unharmed. Roll percentile 
to determine aftereffects : 
01-15 Shaken but okay . Appears standing in front of the shattered 
mirror. 
16 -30 Afraid to use mirrors for ID 6 days. 
31 -55 Afraid to use mirror magic for 2D6 days; mirrors, in general , 
make the character nervous. 
56-7 5 Afraid the reflection in the mirror is not his own for 4D6 
days; avoids mirrors and mirror magic as much as possible. 
76-00 From the corner of his or her eye, s/he sees movement in the 
image of mirror reflecti ons; paranoid for ID 6 days. 
81 -00 Vomited from the mirror with a thud the instant the mirror is 
shattered! Suffers 2D6 damage and loses initiative for the first melee 
round, but is otherwise okay . 
Note : The mage inside the mirror can step out at any time, and is 
forced out when the spell elapses, without negative side effects. 
74 
LEVEL SIX 
Opening the Mirrorwall 
Range: 10 0 feet (30 meters ). 
Duration : One melee per level of experience. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: 40 
In order to cast this spell, the Mirrormage must smash one reason­
ably large mirror (at least two feet/60 cm/0.6 m across). Where the glass 
shatters, a huge gaping void in space is left. A black abyss roaring with 
a cold wind (What happens if a character leaps into this void? That's up 
to the G.M., but expect it to be nasty) . By accessing this void - this 
breach in the Mirrorwall - the caster may negate any one basic law of 
reality in the plane or world that s/he is currently in. The range of this 
effect is the range of the spell. 
So, this breach may suspend gravity, or stop combustion (so, no fire­
arms !), stop magic from working, suspend the laws of mathematics 
(jamming compute rs) , etc., for the duration of the spell. Note that this 
may only be used to temporarily negate a phenomenon, not to reverse it 
or change it in any other way . So, for example, gravity cannot be made 
to pull upwards. Further, liv ing things cannot be made to stop living, 
solids cannot be turned to gasses, etc. 
At the G. M.'s dis cretion , the spell may also be used to import a phe­
nomenon from a reality beyond the Mirrorwall. So, for example, if the 
caster knows of a world where all creatures are automatically able to 
fly, then that phenomenon could be imported through the breach to the 
cast er's present reality . 
LEVEL SE VEN 
Amend Reflection (Ritual) 
Range: Special (s ee below) 
Duration : Indefinite 
Saving Throw : Standard 
P.P.E. : 50 
This spell is identical to Manipulate Reflection, except that its dura­
tion is effectively permanent. It may be used to curse, to mark servants 
and enemi es, or just to create disturbing or intriguing mirrors. In order 
to cast this spell, either the Mirrormage must have the target/victim pre­
sent for the duration of the ritual, or (if the target is a person) the caster 
must have an object intimately associa ted with the person (an item of 
clothing or lock of hair, for example ). 
LEVEL EIGHT 
Steal Reflection 
Range: 10 0 feet (30 meters) 
Duration : One week per level of experien ce. 
Saving Throw : Standard 
P.P.E. : 50 
This spell allows a magician to "steal" any person or creature 's re­
flection, or the reflection of any object up to human-size. This reflection 
is stored in a specific mirror, which the Mirrormage must have in 
his/her posses sion when the spell is cast. 
Cons equently , the target of the spell no longer casts a reflection, and 
the Mirrormage (or whoever owns the mirror) can see the person at any 
time (including clothing , objects held, book being read, etc., but no 
sound, sight of those around him, or details of environment or context) 
regardless of dist ance ! 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)