This spell allows the Fleshscul ptor to conduct major magical surgery 
on any one person, with the intention of curing all magical and mun­
dane ills . The ritual takes at least twelve hours to perform, and allows 
the caster to surgically "remov e" all magics which affect the person 's 
body or mind, all illnesses or diseases from which s/he is suffering , cure 
all insanitie s, etc., placing the offending afflictions in jars for future in­
spection if required. This allows the caster to permanently cure any dis­
ease (cancer, MS, Aids, Parkin son's Disease, etc.), and counteract spells 
such as Mindscul pt. It does not allow the caster to selectively "improve" 
upon the subjec t's natural body or mind, and so cannot increase attrib­
utes, change alignment, add psio nic s, etc. 
The stress of even this amazingly restorative magic causes the fol­
lowing penaltie s: permanently reduce M.E. and P.P.E. by one point. If 
psionic , reduce I.S.P. by 10% 
Mirr or Magic 
In the following section you will find new spells for the Mirrormage. 
In addition to these spell s, remember that the Mirrormage may also cast 
the following spell s: 
From this book : 
Soul In A Bottle (using a mirror instead of a bottle) 
Open Pathway 
Psychic Drain (usi ng a mirror as a focus) 
See Through Lifeless Eyes 
From Between the Shadows™ : 
Astral Portal 
Dream Window (usi ng a mirror for the window) 
Dream Senses (through a mirror) 
Observe Dream (via a mirror placed close to the sleeping person) 
From the Nightbane® RPG: 
Banishment 
Close Rift 
Detect Concealment 
Dimension Portal 
Locate (allowing the caster to see the general area reflected in a mirror) 
Mystic Alarm (if the object Alarmed is in vi ew of a mirror) 
Nightlands Pas sage 
Nightland Portal (starting from a large mirror) 
Oracle (visions seen in a mirror or reflective surface) 
Second Sight (by looking into a mirror) 
See Aura 
See The Invisible 
Sense Evil 
Sense Magic 
Sense Nightbane 
Sense P.P.E. 
Summon Nightlord Avatar 
Summon Nightlord 
Ritual: Call Creature of Light 
Ritual : Call Nightlands Denizens 
Ritual : Call Nightlord 
Talisman (usi ng a mirror) 
Teleport: Lesser (usi ng a mirror to send the object through) 
Teleport: Superior (accom pli shed by stepping through a large mirror) 
71 
Mirr ormagic Spe lls 
By Kevin Hassall and Kevin Siembieda 
Alpha betical list of Mirr ormage Spe lls 
& Rituals by Level 
Note : The same or simila r spell used by a different spell casting 
O.C.c. (if they could even figure it out) costs twice as much P.P. E. ! The 
P.P.E. numbers list ed are specifically for Mirrormage s. 
Level One 
Manipulate Reflection (4) 
Mirror Calling (4) 
Level Two 
Aura Mirror (6) 
Reflect Light (5) 
Level Three 
Dorian 's Mirror (10 ) 
Lens of True Sight (12 ) 
Level Four 
Fear Mirror (12 ) 
Scrying Mirror: Lesser (20) 
Level Five 
Draw Upon the Mirror Wall (10 ) 
Hidden Reflection (25) 
Level Six 
Opening the Mirrorwall (40) 
Level Seven 
Amend Reflection (50) 
Level Eight 
Steal Reflection (50) 
Level Nine 
Mirror Divina tion (70) 
Level Ten 
Man in the Mirror (12 0) 
Level Twelve 
Scrying Mirror: Greater (90) 
Walking the Mirrorw all: Lesser (80) 
Level Fourteen 
Walking the Mirrorw all: Greater (14 0) 
Level Fifteen 
Castle of Oblivion (30 0/15 permanent) 
LEVEL ONE 
Manipulate Reflection 
Range : 20 feet (6 meters). 
Duration : One day per level of experienc e. 
Saving Throw : Standard 
P.P.E. : 4 
The Mirrormage may cast this spell either on a person (or creature), 
or on a mirror or reflective surface. 
If cast on a person (who may attempt to save), all reflections cast by 
that person for the duration of the spell are subtly altered. So, the en­
chanted person may cast a reflection which has blood-red eyes, a scar, a 
sneer, blood stains on his/her hands or lips, a sickly pale (or other color 
or slig htly blemished) color to the skin, seems to have a strange rune on 
his forehead, etc. The spell cannot be used to prevent someone from 
cast ing a reflection, nor to make their reflection look like someone or 
something else, nor to do anything else so cras s, but can be used to in­
criminate, intimidate, and generally terrify its targets. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)