LEV EL NINE 
Mirror Divination 
Range: Self 
Duration : Instant after a period of mirror gazing. 
Saving Throw: None 
P.P.E. : 70 
Simila r to the use of the Div ination skill described earlier in this 
book; however, through this magic, the character does not need the skill 
and a Divina tion is guaranteed! The mage must peer into a mirror and 
concentrate. Within ID 4 minutes s/he'l l see some sort of an image, 
from a face (of an enemy , friend, stranger, etc.) to a full vi sion with 
moving figures or flashing images that will convey a messa ge or warn­
ing about the future (near or distant future). The images will generally 
reflect one narrow area of concern on the part of the mage, but occa­
sionally the character may receive a vi sion of something else (a G.M. 's 
tool for sending insight or info, or creating foreboding/ten sion) . Such 
random visi ons usually reflect an inability to focus one's thoughts , or 
some important event/danger invading one's original thoughts . 
LEVEL TEN 
Man in the Mirror (Ritual) 
Range: Touch 
Duration : One month per level of experie nce. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E. : 12 0 
Through this spell a Mirrormage creates an intelligence within any 
mirror or reflective surface. The mage determines the appearance, rough 
personality and knowledge possessed by the intelligence ins ide the mir­
ror. One skill per level of the creator can be given to the "Man in the 
Mirror"; skill proficiency equal to that of its creator at the time it was 
created. 
Hereafter, whenever anyone looks into the enchanted mirror, they 
will not see their reflec tion, but will instead see the visa ge of this magi­
cal force (being?) looking out at them. This magical entity can see out 
of the mirror, as well as, can hear, smell and speak. 
It may be used as an advisor, tormentor or friend. By determining 
what the entity knows about (it may not know all things the spell cast er 
does not, but may have Lore skills and simila r up to the caster 's level at 
the moment of creation) , the Mirrormage may create an intelligent force 
which can give hints and advice to allies and underlings, or simply be a 
friend or conversational companion. However, because the mirror is in­
habited, it cannot be used to pierce the mirror wall for any purpo se, or 
by any means. Note, the "Man in the Mirror" can also be used as an in­
termediary, spy or messenger, although restricted to that one mirror. 
LEVEL TWELVE 
Scrying Mirror: Greater (Nightlands) 
Range: Specia l 
Duration : 2 minute per level of experience. 
Saving Throw: None 
P.P.E. : 90 
As with the Les ser version of this spell, this allows a Mirrormage to 
look into a mirror or reflective surface, and see through it as if looking 
out from behind any other mirror or reflective surface. However, in this 
case, the mage can look through mirrors on Earth at ten times the range 
of the les ser spell, or through a mirror in an equivalent location in the 
Nightland s, as well as any mirror in the Nightlands whose location is 
75 
known to him ! The usual restrictions still apply, however, that the Mir­
rormage may only look out of mirrors which s/he has already seen, and 
can only view a single sequence of events as they happen. 
Cast ing this spell as a ritual increases duration ten-fold. 
Walking The Mirrorwall: Lesser 
Range : Special 
Duration : One hour 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E. : 80 
The Mirrormage may "open" a section of the Mirrorwall, allowing 
him or her to step in through a mirror and into the Wall . The mage may 
only take small, portable objects, up to thirty pounds (1 3.61 kg) in 
weight. S/he may then wander through the Wall at will, looking out of 
any mirror anywhere in any world, and stepping out of the Wall through 
any mirror. 
If the mage spends more than an hour inside the Wall, then the spell 
expires and there is no longer any magic holding him or her in the Mir­
rorwall : the unfortunate will fall through whichever mirror s/he is stand­
ing on, potentially tumbling into any part of the Megaverse - which 
may be as convenient, dangerous, bizarre, or fatal as the G.M. wishes. 
LEVEL FOURTEEN 
Walking the Mirrorwall: Greater 
Range: Special 
Duration : One hour 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: 14 0 
The Mirrormage may "open" a section of the Mirrorw all, allowing a 
group of up to ten people (total weight, including equipment, no more 
than 2000 lbs/9 1O kg) to step through any mirror into the Mirrorwall it­
self. The group, which must be led by a Mirrormage, may then travel 
through the inside of the Wall, looking out of any mirror anywhere in 
any world, and stepping out of the Wall through any mirror. 
If the group spends more than an hour insi de the Wall, then the spell 
expires and there is no longer any magic holding them in the Mirror­
wall: they will fall through whichever mirror they are standing on, po­
tentially tumbling into any part of any world. 
LEVEL FIFTEEN 
Castle of Oblivion (Ritual) 
Range: Touch 
Duration : Indefinite 
Saving Throw: Standard if consciou s, none if victim is unconsciou s. 
P.P.E. : 300, 15 of which is permanently lost. 
The ritual enchants a large mirror (at least huma n-siz ed) so that it is 
completely black, reflecting nothing (The mirror itself cannot be ac­
cessed from the Mirrorw all . It is, in effect, no longer a mirror). The rit­
ual then takes one human or humanoid target (living, undead, dead, or 
inert) , and sucks it through that mirror, to a place outside of time and 
space - to a Castle of Oblivion, which may exist within the Mirror­
wall, or perhaps in some little-known reality beyond it. 
Through the mirror, the Castle of Oblivion may appear as a small 
black cage hanging in a void, or a huge network of echoing halls, or as 
a desolate plain. Usually, but not always, there is some structure in­
volved, but inevitably the area is uninhabited and inesca pable. Time has 
no meaning here, and watches run at random speeds (or backwar ds). 
The sole purpose of the Castle is to hold people or things outside of 
time and space; an excellent exile for an enemy who cannot be killed, 
for example, or as a way to dispose of an indestructible magical artifact. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)