When cast upon a mirror or other reflective surface, then all reflec ­
tions cast in that mirror will be subtly changed as above. This might in­
volve changing the reflections of all people in the mirror so that they all 
seem more youthful and attractive than they are, or having hints of 
movements or objects which aren 't present in reality appearing in the 
reflection. 
Note : Only those looking into the mirror can see these strange (illu­
sionary and deliberately false) aberrations. 
Mirror Calling 
Range : Special 
Duration : Half an hour per level of experience. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: 4 
The Mirrormage can look into a mirror and call the name of a friend, 
ally or even an enemy, and be heard through any mirror which that indi­
vidual may look into. The "call" is limited to the person 's name and 
three additional words, (e.g. "Thom, help me," or "Collins, I'l l get 
you"). The voice is always recognizable, because the magic can only be 
used on people the spell caster knows well and only that specific person 
hears the messa ge even if others are using the mirror at the same time. 
Of course, the character to whom the messa ge is directed must be look­
ing into a mirror while the messa ge is transmitted, so it is a bit hit and 
miss (see duration). Once the messa ge is heard, it sto ps. 
LEVEL TW O 
Aura Mirror 
Range: Cast upon a mirror up to 20 feet (6 meters ). Affects all who 
look into the mirror. 
Duration : Half an hour per level of experience. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: 6 
For the duration of the spell, all who gaze into the mirror see their 
aura - typically a rather beautiful and wondrous thing to see. Those 
who understand and can interpret auras will be able to tell whether the 
character 's aura is strong or weak, healthy or sickly, general level of 
power/experience (high, medium or low) , leaning toward good, selfish 
or evil, and whether the character is human or inhuman (but not what 
type of specific creature). Note : Those not used to seeing auras (which 
is most people) will be so intrigued and caught up in looking at the radi­
ant energy that they are -3 on initiative and perception roll s. Snaps out 
of it as soon as they look away or are drawn to action. 
Reflect Light 
Range : 20 feet (6 m) per level of experie nce. 
Duration : One melee round per level of experienc e. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: S 
The mage can expertly use a hand-held mirror to reflect light with 
great precis ion and accuracy. This can be used to signal others or to 
flash light in an opponent's eyes to momentarily blind him: blinded for 
4 seconds in which the victim loses one melee action and initiative per 
each blin ding ; sunglasses negate the effect and otherwise shielding 
one's eyes prevents blin dness but the character under attack sees all 
combat bonuses reduced by half. 
Each reflection of light in an attempt to blind counts as one melee 
action/attack, but is an automatic successf ul strike. No damage is in­
flicted by the light and either sunl ight or another light source is neces­
sary . 
72 
LEVEL TH REE 
Dorian's Mirror 
Range: Cast upon a mirror up to 20 feet (6 meters ). Affects all who 
look into the mirror. 
Duration : Half an hour per level of experienc e. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E.: 10 
For the duration of the spell, whoever looks in the mirror sees an im­
age reflective of their guilt, regret, and acts of evil. Only the individual 
character sees this image, even if others are looking into the mirror at 
the same time (each sees only himself change d). More often, the deeds 
of the character are reflected in his or her own image , snarling with an­
ger or smiling demonic ly, with blood caked on the hands. A cruel, bitter 
face ravaged by the deep lines of a cruel frown, sunken eyes and brutal 
experience may be etched on the reflected face of an outwardly beauti­
ful woman or handsome man. Nightbane will usually see themselves in 
whatever image they most loathe or regret being, Facade or Morphus. 
If the character recently betrayed a friend or was responsible for the 
death of an innocent (intentional or accidental ), the blood of that indi­
vidual may be on his/her hands, or the victim may be looming like a 
ghostly shadow in the background, looking forlorn, angry or sad. 
A womanizer may have one to several woman hanging on him or 
weeping or scowling behind him or in the background. In fact, the back­
ground may be crowded with such "ghosts" of regret and cruelty . 
Note : Not all characters will see themselves as monsters . Those who 
like themselves and honestly have few regrets may simply look a bit 
weary , older or sad, while others may look pretty much as they do in 
real life. 
Lens of True Sight 
Range: Touch (of thick glas s). 
Duration : 4 melee rounds (one minut e). 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E. : 12 
Cast ing this spell, the Mirrormage enchants a thick lens so that when 
s/he looks through it, s/he will be able to see all things as they truly are. 
In other words, so long as the Mirrormage looks through the lens, s/he 
can see invisible creatures, see through illusions and magical disgui ses, 
see the true construction of Hollow Men, can tell if a person is undead 
or posses sed, and simi lar. In the case of Nightbane and shape-changers , 
the lens will reveal/confirm whether or not a monstrous character is a 
Nig htbane, werebeast or other type of shape-changer (but only when 
they are in nonhuman form) but does not reveal the character' s Facade 
or true identity; just what their true nature is (Nig htbane, Changeling, 
Succubus, etc.). It will also reveal if a mirror is enchanted or inhabited. 
Note : The lens does not reveal magic s, show auras , or allow the magi­
cian to see through mundane disguises (false beards, make-up, etc.), 
only disguises and illusions of a supernatural or magical nature. The 
lens must be at least half an inch thick, so a heavy glass bottle or the 
bottom of a chunky glass would be thick enough, but eyeglasses and 
contact lenses are too thin. 
LEVEL FOUR 
Fear Mirror 
Range: Cast upon a mirror up to 20 feet (6 meters). Affects all who 
look into the mirror. 
Duration : 10 minutes per level of experience. 
Saving Throw : None 
P.P.E. : 12 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)