Alien Shape Table
This category covers a wide variety of unusual shapes and 
forms that occasionally manifest in some Nightbane. Players are 
welcome to determine or guess what dark elements of their char-
acter’s souls or subconscious are embodied in any of the alien 
forms listed below. In most cases, Disguise, Seduction and Un-
dercover Ops skills are impossible.
01-12% Plasmoid: The Nightbane’s body has a semi-liquid 
consistency; he is made up of jelly-like blood! The basic shape 
of the character remains that of a bipedal humanoid (it can even 
have the exact outline of his Facade), but it can be changed at 
will, stretched, spread or even puddled into any shape the char-
acter wills. The character can squeeze through narrow openings 
(even a couple of inches will do!), slip out of restraints and con-
ceal himself as a glob or goo. Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C., all phys-
ical attacks directed at the character (punches, clubs, bullets, etc.) 
do half damage, and +1D6 to Horror Factor.
13-24% Bark-like Skin: The character looks like a bizarre 
combination of tree and human, with bark instead of skin, and 
often with leaves or vines instead of hair! Bonuses: +1D4x10 to 
S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
25-37% Bony Exoskeleton: The Nightbane is covered with 
bone-like plates or large scales, often with horn-like protrusions 
and short spikes. Bonuses: +1D6x10 to S.D.C. and +1D6 dam-
age to the usual Supernatural P.S. damage from hand to hand and 
melee attack, and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
38-45% Thorns: Thorns protrude from the character’s body! 
They may appear to be natural growths, or they might be stig-
mata-like, appearing to painfully pierce the character’s skin! Bo-
nuses: +4D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
46-54% Crystalline: The character looks predominately hu-
man, but has crystals that resemble quartz or diamonds growing 
out of his skin along the fingers, the bones of the hands, along 
the back of the arms up and down the spine and at the elbow, 
shoulders and knees. The head can look completely human or 
the hair can be replaced with a cap of crystals or a crown of 
tall, jutting crystal. Add 2D4x10 to the S.D.C., heat and fire do 
half damage, and the character can parry bladed weapons and 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
136
fiery torches with his bare hands. The fingernails are replaced 
by jagged crystals that slash, doing 1D6 plus punch damage and 
the crystal encrusted hands function similar to brass knuckles 
adding 1D6 to punch damage. Furthermore, in bright light, the 
Nightbane glitters like a gem and may (1-60% chance) blind all 
who look at him from the reflected light. Bonus: +2 to Horror 
Factor.
55-66% Living Tattoos: The Nightbane’s skin is covered 
with tattoos. Unlike normal body decorations, however, these tat-
toos change and move! The changes may reflect the character’s 
current state of mind (i.e., an angry Nightbane might suddenly 
display violent or threatening tattoos) or might be controlled di-
rectly by the character (50-50 chance or select one). In the first 
case, the Nightbane has no control over the tattoos, they react 
to his emotions and may start squirming at any given moment. 
Bonus: +1D6 to Horror Factor whenever someone notices the 
moving tattoos.
67-77% Unusual Skin Color: The Nightbane’s skin has an 
inhuman hue. The color is too intense and sharp to be normal, 
body paint or dyes. Colors can include shades of yellows, reds, 
greens, blues, purple/violets, copper, gold, metallic grey, silver, 
pitch black, and stark white. Roll or pick one. Bonus: +1 to Hor-
ror Factor.
78-85% Hulking Monster: The character transforms into a 
huge, hulking brute with a large barrel chest, hunched back, long 
gorilla-like arms, and a comparatively tiny (human-sized) head. 
The face may be human, alien, animal, or monstrous in appear-
ance. The misshapened hulk stands 1D6+6 feet (2.1 to 3.7 m) 
tall (and that’s with a hunched back), and weighs 800 pounds 
(360 kg) per every foot (0.3 m) of height! Bonuses: +1D6x10 to 
S.D.C., +1D4 to P.S., +2 to roll with fall or impact and add +1D4 
to Horror Factor. Note: Reduce Spd by 10%.
86-95% Mouth-Covered Body! The Nightbane’s body is 
covered by 2D6x10 tiny mouths! The mouths can make gestures, 
stick out their tongues, whistle, hoot, growl or even scream in 
a hellish chorus (adds 3 to Horror Factor when all of them are 
screaming or screeching at once)! However, they cannot speak. 
The character can also grapple an enemy and let the tiny mouths 
bite him (this inflicts 1D4 damage per mouth; typically 1D6 
mouths will bite at the same time). Bonus: +1D4+2 to Horror 
Factor.
96-00% Combination of Two: Roll twice more (ignore and 
re-roll any result of 96 or higher), and then combine the results.