Facial Features Table
Many Nightbane appear completely normal from a distance 
– until one looks them in the face. In most cases, -40% to the 
Disguise, Seduction and Undercover Ops skills.
01-07% Oversized Carnivorous Mouth: The Nightbane has 
supernaturally strong jaw muscles. Bonuses: +1 to Horror Factor. Bite attack does 2D6 damage and the character can hold on 
and continue biting (no strike roll is necessary), but inflicts normal bite damage once at the beginning and once at the end of the 
melee round until his victim is dislodged or he lets go. Note: No 
other combat actions are possible while using this attack).
08-15% Glowing Eyes: The Nightbane’s eyes glow with unnatural light, so bright that they can faintly illuminate a dark area! 
Normal sunglasses will not be able to hide the glowing eyes, but 
mirror shades will. Bonuses: The Nightbane has enhanced Nightvision able to see in total darkness at a range of 2,000 feet (610 
m), and +1 to Horror Factor.
16-22% Cyclops: The character only has one large eye in the 
middle of his forehead. Bonuses: Perfect 20/20 vision and +2 to 
the Horror Factor.
23-30% Misshapen Facial Features: Some possibilities: The 
eyes are in the wrong place, the nose is flat or missing, the mouth 
is where the eyes should be and vice-versa, the creature has more 
than one mouth, and other bizarre features. Bonus: +1D4 to Horror Factor.
31-38% Extra Eyes: The Nightbane has 1D4 additional eyes 
(roll or choose from 1-6 total eyes). They are arranged in two 
or three rows, and they can be human-sized or slightly smaller. 
Bonuses: +2 to Perception Rolls involving sight and +1D4 to 
Horror Factor.
39-46% Sharp Teeth: The Nightbane has long, fang-like 
teeth. Bonuses: Bite inflicts 3D6 damage, and +2 to Horror Factor whenever the teeth are displayed, in a smile, for example.
47-55% Skull Face: The character’s head is a fleshless skull 
(players may opt to let hair grow on the skull, or leave it bare). 
The skeletal head is sometimes surrounded by a nimbus of light 
or flames (1-30%), but is completely without flesh and bare and 
grotesquely protrudes from a flesh neck (31-60%). This gives the 
head more of a bony helmet or mask appearance than a real head 
(61-90%), or has a different, unusual look (91-00%, the player 
may roll again for unusual facial features that further deform the 
skull, like small horns, and additional eye sockets), roll or pick 
one. Bonuses: +2D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
56-62% Small Horns: The Nightbane has small, vestigial 
horns, typically similar to a goat’s or a ram’s. The horns can be 
disguised with a hat or other head covering. Bonuses: Head butt 
does 1D6 S.D.C. damge in addition to Supernatural P.S. damage 
and +1 to Horror Factor.
63-70% Large Horns: Large horns, often similar to a ram’s 
or deer’s. Bonuses: +2 to Horror Factor, and a head butt inflicts 
3D6 damage addition to normal punch damage. Note: The horns 
are so large that it is impossible to hide them.
71-78% Facial Tentacles: Writhing tentacles protrude from 
the face of the Nightbane! They can be situated anywhere in the 
face; some examples include the chin for a “living beard” look, 
between the nose and mouth for a Lovecraftian appearance, or 
instead of hair for a Medusa-like look. Bonuses: +2D6 to S.D.C. 
and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
79-85% No Face: The Nightbane has a perfectly smooth face: 
no eyes, mouth, or nose are visible. The creature can speak, but 
the voice seems to be coming from inside the smooth surface, and 
may have an inhuman quality, or simply sound muffled; player’s 
choice. The lack of eyes does not impair the Nightbane’s senses; 
he can see, smell and hear perfectly. To eat, food is seemingly 
pushed through the skin, like a soft membrane, where the mouth 
should be. Bonus: +1D4 to Horror Factor.
86-90% Biomechanical: Roll on the Biomechanical Table, 
but only apply the results to the face/head of the Nightbane. The 
rest of the body may be normal or have completely different characteristics.
91-95% Alien Features: The Nightbane looks inhuman and 
alien. The head may be over-sized with large (or small), black 
almond-shaped eyes, a tiny nose or nose holes, no facial hair, 
dark or pale complexion and other inhuman features (fangs, skin 
patterns, horns, etc.). Bonus: +2 to Horror Factor.
96-98% Two: Roll twice and try to combine the result; ignore 
and re-roll any result of 96% or higher. Some results might not 
make much sense at first, players are invited to use their imagination. For example: A player rolls for both Cyclops and No Face! 
In that case, the character has one central eye, and no other facial 
features. Or maybe he rolls instead Cyclops and Multiple Eyes: 
simply place one large eye in the middle, surrounded by smaller 
ones.
99-00% Three: As above, but roll three times.