Stigmata Table II ------
When determining stigmata features, the player can roll on 
the original table as presented in the Nightbane RPG, page 101 , 
or he may roll on this one, or make selections from both.
01-20 % Inside-Out Creature: The Nightbane's body has 
been literally turned inside out; his/her organs are on the outside 
of the body, resulting in the most grotesque image possible. Not 
even other Nightbanes will feel comfortable around such a crea­
ture. Add 1 D6x l O  to S.D.C. and + 1 D4+2 to horror factor.
21-40% Translucent Skin: The character's skin has a trans­
lucent, semi-transparent quality, reminiscent of a thin plastic or 
rubber membrane, allowing muscle tissue and organs to be semi­
visible. Add 4D6 to S.D.C. and + 1 D4 to horror factor.
41-60 % Body Faces: Small faces and heads (from one to 
six) dot the character's body! These heads can be as small as a 
thumb or as large as a grapefruit. Some Nightbanes can speak 
through these faces; others cannot stop the faces from scream­
ing, laughing, gibbering, or mouthing expressions. The mouths 
of each face may also bite any enemy that gets within grappling 
distance; each can inflict 1 D4 points of damage per bite. Add 
4D6 to S.D.C. and + 1 D6 to horror factor.
61-75 % Withered Flesh: The Nightbane's flesh is dried and 
mummy-like, making the character look like a desiccated corpse. 
Add 3D6 to S.D.C. and + 1 to horror factor.
76-90% Gut Tentacles: A pair of tentacles covered in purple 
and blue blood vessels, resembling internal organs or intestines, 
can extend out of the body from the belly and grapple, whip or 
strike at one's opponents! These disgusting limbs inflict 2D6 
damage with a whipping attack, 1 D6 with a strike/punch, and 
can grapple enemies with the same strength as the Nightbane, 
with a maximum range of 6 feet ( 1 .8 m). Adds one extra attack 
per melee, +2D6 S.D.C. and +2 to horror factor.
91-00 % Shifting Body: The Nightbane's Morphus is always 
shifting uncontrollably, with stigmata characteristics from both 
stigmata tables appearing at random. So, for example, a tiny 
head might appear in the character's chest, linger for 1 D6 min­
utes, and then disappear, replaced by open wounds, protruding 
nails or similarly disgusting traits. The new feature stays for 1 D6 
minutes ( 1 -50%) or 1 D4 hours (5 1 -00%), and then is replaced by 
something else. Also roll or select a new stigmata every time the 
character switches to the Facade and then back to Morphus. 
However, the character does not gain any of the bonuses that 
normally accompany those stigmatas, except for the horror fac­
tor. Instead, the character gets + l D4x10 S.D.C., +1 on percep­
tion rolls, and + 1 on initiative. Horror Factor is determined by 
the stigmata of the moment. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
New Nightbane® Talents 
Air Grab 
The Nightbane can "grab" somebody up to 50 feet (15.2 m) 
away +10 feet (3 m) per additional level by making a grabbing 
gesture in the direction of the target. The grab simply holds a 
person for two melee actions, or roughly 5 seconds, during 
which time he cannot move or physically attack. The captive of 
an air grab can break free with one, flexing, melee action of his 
own, but only if his strength is equal to or greater than the Night­
bane's. 
An "air squeeze" does supernatural P.S. damage; use the 
Nightbane's P.S. minus five points, and counts as two melee at­
tacks. 
The Nightbane can also use the power to grab and bring/pull 
the victim to him in one melee action (2 seconds). The captive of 
an air grab can break free or resist being pulled only if his own 
P.S. is equal to or greater than the Nightbane. Instead of pulling 
the grabbed character to him, the Nightbane can throw him up to 
1 0  feet (3 m) away. Unless the victim makes a successful roll 
with fall/impact he takes I D6 S.D.C. damage and loses two me­
lee actions/attacks and initiative. 
Victims must know they are being targeted with this power to 
avoid it, and even then they need to roll a 1 6  or higher to dodge. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. Each action or at­
tack costs 8 P.P.E. 
Cost: 10 P.P.E. to acquire it permanently; 8 P.P.E. per grab­
bing action. 
Astral Self 
The Nightbane becomes an astral being with no physical 
body. In this form, the character has all the abilities and limita­
tions of an astral projection (see Nightbane RPG, page 70), but 
without a silver cord, or any physical body left behind. The 
S.D.C. of the astral-self is equal to the combined S.D.C. and hit 
points of the Nightbane, times two! While in astral form, the 
character can enter the Astral Plane, affect insubstantial crea­
tures and other astral beings, and visit astral domains or king­
doms (see the Astral Plane section for more information). Once 
transformed, the Nightbane can stay in astral form indefinitely, 
although changing back will use up P.P.E. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus form only. 
Cost: 8 P.P.E. to acquire permanently. 8 P.P.E. to activate, 
and 8 P.P.E. to return to physical form (the character must have 
returned to the physical world, either Earth or the Nightlands, to 
return to his normal state). 
Darkwave 
The Nightbane becomes a semi-liquid mass of pure darkness 
that can engulf and injure opponents. An engulf counts as a nor­
mal melee attack. An intended victim can try to dodge but does 
so with a -4 penalty. Once engulfed, the victim is helplessly con­
fined in absolute darkness, and possibly made to suffer 2D6 
S.D.C. per melee round locked within the darkwave. This dam­
age cannot be regenerated until the victim is free of the darkness. 
While trapped, the victim loses half his attacks/actions per melee 
133 
round, and all combat bonuses. The use of spells and psionics 
are impossible. 
The size of the Darkwave is determined by the level of the 
Nightbane. At levels one and two, the character can engulf one 
victim, two victims at level three, three at level six, and one ad­
ditional victim at levels nine, twelve and fifteen. Multiple vic­
tims get a dodge defense against the Nightbane' s single attack 
roll without penalty. 
While in this state, the Nightbane takes half damage from 
physical attacks directed at the darkness, and double damage 
from energy and magical attacks from those not trapped inside. 
Furthermore, strong light will inflict damage: no damage from 
street lights, I D6 from a pen light (range: 5 feet/1 .5 m), 3D6 
from a commercial flashlight (range 10 feet/3.0 m), 5D6 from a 
high-powered or police flashlight, and I D6x lO from a spotlight 
or magic light or Guardian. This damage can be inflicted once 
per melee round per light wielder. The power cannot be used 
during the day; or the Nightbane will take I D6x l O  points of 
damage at the end of every melee round. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only, vulnerable to 
light, and not advisable in daylight. 
Cost: 1 2  P.P.E. to acquire permanently; 6 P.P.E. per 30 sec­
onds (two melee rounds). 
Dervish Dance 
The Nightbane can move in a circular pattern and make spin­
ning attacks with incredible speed. Basically, the character spins 
at blurring speeds in a large circle - an area 10 feet (3.0 m) in 
diameter. All opponents within, or who enter the dance zone gets 
attacked as if the Nightbane had made an attack roll of 10 + 1 per 
level of the Nightbane (maximum 19). Everybody in the dance 
circle is attacked again if anyone in the zone tries to attack the 
Nightbane dervish dancer. Opponents can try to dodge the der­
vish attack as normal, parry at -6, or try to roll with the punch, 
fall or impact after being struck. The Nightbane also uses the at­
tack roll number (10 + 1 per level of experience) to automatically 
parry all incoming attacks, even bullets, arrows and similar mis­
sile attacks (but not energy attacks - they strike and damage as 
normal). 
The dervish dance lasts one entire melee round (15 seconds), 
must be the Nightbane's first attack of that melee round, and 
counts as all the character's melee attacks for that round. Exam­
,: Sargon the Uncanny, 6th level Nightbane, attacks a group of 
three Hounds with his Dervish Dance. All fall within the diame­
ter of his attack (10 ft/3 m). He activates the power and wades 
into the group, striking at each one with a 16 to hit (no die roll is 
necessary). Each Hounds tries to dodge; rolls are a 10, a 15, and 
a 3, all fail, so each takes damage as if Sargon had punched them 
individually. The Hounds then all attack back; their attack rolls 
must exceed a 16 to harm Sargon; only one attack roll in the en­
tire melee round does so, lightly injuring Sargon. Because they 
retaliated, Sargon's dervish dance enables him to strike again, 
this time the Hounds roll a 14, a 1 6  and a 1 9  respectively. Only 
the 14 suffers damage. The 1 6  ties, so the dodge was successful 
and the 19 dodged with ease (but all attempting the dodge use up 
one melee attack/action). Now, if none of the Hounds attack 
again, Sargon cannot strike again. But if even one Hound at­
tacks, Sargon parries with a 1 6  (17 or higher hits) and all three 
are attacked again. Of course, any Hound that runs away is 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
likely to get outside the diameter of the dance and be safe from 
any further attacks. However, looking at the blur of action, he 
can try to strike the whirling Nightbane but still must roll a 17 or 
higher to hit him. At the end of the melee round, the Nightbane 
stops and prepares to fight them normally. If he had wanted to 
keep the power going, he would have had to spend an additional 
20 P.P.E. 
Limitations: Only usable in the Morphus form and limited to 
a 10 foot (3 m) diameter striking range. 
Cost: 1 5  to acquire permanently; 20 P.P.E. per melee round. 
Dreamer 
With this power, the Nightbane can enter the Dreamstream, 
body and soul. While in the Dreamstream, the Nightbane has a 
"psychic S.D.C." equal to his normal S.D.C. and hit points com­
bined. The character can use his other talents normally, and can 
enter the Dream Pools of other people. Although Nightbanes 
cannot manipulate dreamstuff to terrorize dreamers, their mere 
shape and appearance are often enough to create nightmares. See 
the Dreamstream section for more information. 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. If all psychic 
S.D.C. are reduced to below zero, the character is slain and van­
ishes as if he never existed. 
Club Freak™ 
A New Nightbane Faction 
I knock on the metal door, once, two raps, then one more. I 
bought the code from a - thing that lives in an abandoned 
building and claims to eat human flesh. 
The viewing slits opens with a slam. An inhumanly large eye, 
bloodshot and angry, stares out at me. "You ain't Morphed 
out," a voice hisses behind the door. 
"Out here? In the street?" /t's more than fear that makes me 
hesitate. I don' t  want to Change. I don' t  want to see what I've 
become. I thought they would understand. 
"This here's Club Freak, jerk. Gotta see if you look the part. 
You a Ken-doll?" 
I shake my head violently. Not a Ken; not even close. "All 
right," I spit out, and start the Change. 
It hurts at first. The glass shards push their way out of my 
skin, and blood seeps out, cooling in the evening air. A pressure 
on my forehead gives way to a tearing pain, and a short tentacle, 
tipped by a large blue eye, pokes its way out. My bones stretch 
and twist, and now my arms reach down to the floor, and black 
claws tip my fingers. 
"You happy now?" I growl at the doorman. I hate him almost 
as much as I hate myself. 
The door swings open. I shuffle into a smokelilled room. 
Blues music is playing loudly in the background, but it is half­
drowned by laughter and conversation. My three eyes blink. 
Everywhere I look, there are monsters. A wolf-creature is play­
ing poker with an insectoid thing and a woman who would be 
pretty if it wasn't for the oozing wounds that stain her clothing 
and her chair. A game of darts is being dominated by a fourCost: 10 to permanently acquire, and 10 to enter, or leave the 
Dreamstream. Once there, the Nightbane can stay indefinitely. 
Piecework 
By using this power, the Nightbane can remove a part of his 
own flesh and place it somwhere as a spying device; some re­
move an eye, ear, or other sensory body parts, but a finger or toe 
will do just as well. The body part will be able to hear, see and 
feel everything around it, although it may be limited by where it 
has been placed and cannot move or communicate. The Night­
bane cannot learn anything from the detached appendage until 
he reattaches it. When the piece is reattached, the character re­
members everything experienced by the piece as if he had been 
there himself. Each piece has 10 S.D.C. and 4 hit points (these 
cannot be regenerated until the piece is destroyed or reattached). 
Limitations: Usable by the Morphus only. 
Cost: 10 to permanently acquire the power, and 8 to activate 
the missing piece. Every hour after the first that the piece is 
missing, the Nightbane must spend an additional 6 P.P.E. or the 
missing piece will disappear. If this occurs the Nightbane regen­
erate the damage and the item, but he loses any information the 
original might have gained. If the body part or piece of flesh is 
burned, eaten or otherwise destroyed, it ceases to exist, with the 
same effects. 
armed thrower. Something like an ink blot slithers down from 
the ceiling and pours itself into a human shape - human, except 
for horns and cloven feet. 
134 
The conversation dies out as people notice my entrance. The 
music drones on for a few moments, and then somebody or 
something turns off the record machine. The entire rooms takes 
a long look at me. 
Somebody in the back starts clapping. 
The entire club, the freaks and the monsters applaud me, 
cheer me, welcome me. They give me a standing ovation, clap­
ping together clawed hands, tentacles and chitinous limbs. They 
are glad to see me. 
My smile tastes of joyous tears as I join my people. 
The first Club Freak appeared in London during the late 19th 
century. It was the creation of the self-styled "Earl of Hideous," 
a centuries old Nightbane said to be related to the Tudor kings. 
His design aped the gentlemen's clubs that were common at the 
time, a place where the well-to-do could relax and socialize with 
their peers. The Earl's version was a place where Nightbanes 
could abandon their "charade of humanity" and could be them­
selves in every sense of the word. In the following century, over 
a dozen such clubs appeared throughout the world. 
Most Club Freaks are places where any and all Nightbanes 
are welcome, as long as they behave themselves. Some clubs are 
more restrictive, however, rejecting "Kens and Barbies," as they 
refer to those Nightbanes without noticeable deformities. The 
emphasis is on the fact that Nightbanes are not human. The Fa­
cade is considered a necessary disguise that members are supJoe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
posed to "check at the door," just as one would a coat or hat -
an unnecessary accessory when in a safe place. For decades, 
members sneered at humankind, so mortal, weak and fearful of 
the inhuman. The clubs' goals went beyond providing a safe 
place for Nightbanes to socialize; the Earl of Hideous wished to 
establish a network of influence among those Nightbanes who 
used their longevity to amass wealth and power. Even the poor­
est and most destitute Nightbanes were welcome because, after 
all, who knew what they might accomplish ten, fifty, or a hun­
dred years down the line? Many Nightbanes suspect that the 
Earl's ultimate goal was to forge a secret society that would run 
world affairs from behind closed doors. 
Whatever the club's ultimate ends may have been, they re­
mained popular in the years preceding Dark Day. During the 
1 920s, the U.S. versions of Club Freaks became more like Jazz 
clubs or "speak-easies" (secret drinking establishments during 
Prohibition). During the 1980s and '90s, new clubs looked more 
like alternative nightclubs where young and scared Nightbanes 
could feel right at home. In all its manifestations, the club freaks 
all honored one old tradition: newcomer Nightbanes were wel­
comed with a standing ovation in celebration of their hideous­
ness. 
Organization 
All Club Freaks are owned in common by a group of wealthy 
and influential Nightbanes known as the Club Trustees. This 
loose organization's comprised of some of the most important 
Nightbanes in the world. Supernatural beings so powerful that 
they snickered at the Underground Railroad. Beneath the Trus­
tees are other Nightbanes charged with managing each club 
"franchise" as they see fit. Although the managers answer to the 
Trustees, they often run each Club Freaks as their personal king­
dom. 
Many of the larger clubs employ humans, a necessity given 
the relative few number of Nightbanes even after Dark Day. The 
Club employees are usually people who for some reason or an­
other owe loyalty to the Nightbane. Most of them belong to ex­
tended families who have been in the service of the older Club 
Trustees for centuries, long before Club Freaks were even dis­
covered. These volunteers undergo a magically-enforced oath of 
secrecy; in return, they are the highest-paid waiters, barmen and 
servants in the world. 
While each Club Freaks is often unique and has its own idi­
osyncrasies and special elements, a few stand out far above the 
rest. The two most notable clubs are described below. 
The Capital Club 
Set in Washington D.C., the membership of the club includes 
Nightbanes who manipulated the U.S. government for decades, 
if not centuries. These Nightbanes did not control the govern­
ment, but through campaign contributions (or outright bribes), 
hired lobbyists and with the occasional use of Nightbane talents 
or magic spells, often helped shape policies that affected the 
U.S. and the entire world. The club had one of the largest mem­
berships in the world, just as Washington had one of the largest 
pre-Dark Day Nightbane populations. The reason was obvious; 
this was the place to be if one wanted to have an impact on 
world affairs. Many ancient Nightbanes set up shop here and 
rubbed shoulders with their peers at the Capital Club. 
136 
When the Ba'al and their agents seized control of the U.S. 
government, the club members' carefully nurtured network of 
influence collapsed like a house of cards. Three of the most 
prominent Nightbane members were killed during Dark Day. In 
their arrogance they had become public personalities, and they 
were thus easily discovered and destroyed by Hounds and other 
Ba'al minions. The survivors quickly hid themselves and their 
organization, and have managed to weather the storm. The club 
is now working to pay the invaders back. 
The Capital Club can be reached through the Washington 
subway system, where a number of secret doors (all carefully 
watched and concealed with the best available magical and tech­
nological resources) will lead members to a richly-furnished 
"gentlemen's club" (female Nightbanes have been welcome 
there since the mid-20th Century). Members who wish to relax 
can go to the Sitting Room to enjoy well-padded armchairs 
while waiters (loyal humans, with a few psychics and supernatu­
ral beings thrown into the mix) keep them supplied with the best 
food and drinks in town. An open bar and a dining room are 
places to socialize and find out what's new. 
The Capital Club has 1 1  charter members (there were 1 4) and 
about two dozen "regulars" who show up at least once a month. 
Another few dozen Nightbanes who inhabit the city know about 
the Club and visit infrequently for meetings with others of their 
kind, to acquire or share information, seek help, or simply to re­
lax. 
The Astral Club 
The largest Freaks' Club is not found on Earth. Instead, it ex­
ists in an astral domain (see the Astral Plane section), con­
structed by Nightbane sorcerers aided by 
a mysterious 
organization of human mystics. The Astral Club is twice the size 
of a city block, and acts both as a social club, a bar and a lodging 
house with a capacity of over two hundred guests. 
The club is divided into over a dozen chambers. There is, for 
example, the Concert Chamber, where musically-adept Night­
banes perform for their peers. On any given night, patrons can 
be entertained by ancient Greek harp-music, Gregorian chants, 
rock 'n roll and rap music, one after the other. Guests wishing to 
enjoy a good meal go to the Dining Chamber, where a 300 year 
old Nightbane known as 1. Blades will prepare almost every 
known dish in history with the quality of a five-star restaurant. 
Other chambers include a casino, bars, dance floors, banquet 
halls, and a hotel. Servants include humans, Tarantuloids and as­
tral entities. Portals reach into no less than a dozen locations on 
Earth, including two other clubs (in London and Boston), a 
number of Nightbane safe houses and other secure locales. 
Although the Astral Club has avoided politics in the Astral 
Plane, recent events have made it difficult to stay out of them. 
As the Nightlords' influence over astral space increases, the 
managers of the club worry that soon their domain will be tar­
geted by the Ba'al. The Trustees are considering trying to make 
a deal with other astral organizations to protect this valuable lo­
cation. Some members have spoken about waging their own se­
cret war against the evil interlopers. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Club Freaks relations 
with other Factions 
The Clubs Freak's are unique in that they are places where 
Nightbanes from any faction are welcomed, so long as they are 
peaceful. Still, individual clubs often show favoritism for some 
groups over others. 
The Underground Railroad: This faction's policy of hiding 
and retreating from humankind has often been considered cow­
ardly by the powerful trustees and managers of the Club Freaks. 
Still, many wealthy Trustees have helped fund and underwrite 
many of the Railroad's activities, recognizing the need to safe­
guard as many Nightbanes as possible. With the coming of the 
Dark Day invasion, however, the Club Trustees are more inter­
ested in action rather than escape, and their support for the Rail­
road has greatly diminished. 
The Resistance: Many Club Trustees are important members 
of the Resistance, and most clubs act as unofficial Resistance 
meeting places and safe houses. The additional risks of doing so 
are minimal, since a Nightbane owned and operated estab­
lishment would be marked for termination by the Ba'al in any 
case. The most militant Resistance members, especially those 
who have no trust for humans, are frequent "regulars" at these 
places. 
Spook Squad: As far as the Trustees are concerned, this or­
ganization represents the worst aspects of humankind, and any 
Squad member (even a Nightbane) who discovers the existence 
of any club will be targeted for termination. At the same time, 
some Spook Squad agents have uncovered evidence of Night­
bane interference in American politics, and suspect the existence 
of some sort of "power monger" Nightbane group that existed 
before the coming of the Nightlords. 
137 
The NocturneslVampires/Wampyrs: Although most clubs 
will not welcome any non-Nightbane, some will make an excep­
tion for supernatural beings, as long as Nightbane club members 
in good standing vouch for them. A non-human who has proven 
himself to be a friend of Nightkind may even be made an honor­
ary member (a rarity). A few Nocturne members have earned 
this distinction; they are the closest thing to a mediator between 
the Nocturnes and the other Nightbane factions. 
The Warlords: Two Clubs, one in Chicago and one in New 
York, have more of a "streetwise" outlook than most other es­
tablishments. Rap is the music of choice, and most of the patrons 
are tough Nightbanes, many of them minority members who 
grew up in the slums. Several Warlords frequent these two 
clubs; their outlook of racial superiority over humans is echoed 
by the club's policies. The only problem is violence often erupts 
among the Warlords themselves, let alone between the Warlords 
and Nightbanes from other factions. Since fighting is not al­
lowed in any Club Freak, Warlords have been ejected on many 
occasions. Nightbanes were killed during two particularly nasty 
incidents. The Club Trustees are pondering the wisdom of cater­
ing to these outlaws, and may end up closing the two clubs alto­
gether. 
The Lightbringers/Guardians: The same principles that ap­
ply to all supernatural beings include Guardians, although more 
of their number than any other have become honorary members. 
However, the Lightbringers as a whole see these clubs as places 
where Nightbanes reject their humanity, something that may 
(and often does) lead Nightbanes to believe they are above mo­
rality and the law. In New Orleans, a group of Lightbringers 
tried to forcibly shut down a Club Freak's that had existed in 
that city since the 1 920's. The ensuing brawl left three Night­
banes, two Guardians and twelve humans dead, as well as a 
score injured. Now New Orleans is split in a three-way war be­
tween the ResistanceIFreak's Club, the surviving Lightbringers, 
and the Nightlord controlling the city. This conflict has colored 
the worldwide relationship between these organizations. 
The Seekers & Sorcerous Orders: Human sorcerers and 
psychics are greatly feared by many Nightbanes, since they are 
one of the few groups who can discover and ferret them out, no 
matter how well hidden they are. Since most Club Freak's are 
protected by magical circles and wards, their greatest vulnerabil­
ity is from magicians. As a result, some club members will "pre­
empt" any sorcerers they find - by killing them on sight. There 
are some exceptions to this rule, however. One is a mysterious 
group of wizards who are believed to have taught magic to a 
number of Nightbanes. The other is the Gray Ghost Society (see 
below). Likewise, the occasional lone wizard who has proven 
his loyalty may be employed or associated with a club. 
The Seekers are considered to be a danger. This organization 
of scholars has discovered the existence of the London, Wash­
ington D.C. and Tokyo clubs, and suspects that more exist. The 
Club Trustees know that the Seekers know, and fear the worst. 
So far, however, the Seekers have not used their knowledge 
against the Nightbanes, so the club is reexamining its policy to­
wards them. Maybe a truce, at least until the Nightlords are dealt 
with. 
The Gray Ghost Society: The existence of the Astral Club 
Freaks is known to the Gray Ghost Society, and vice versa. In 
recent months, an attack against the club by Necrophim led club 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
patrons and Gray Ghost psychics to join forces to repel the at­
tack. This collaboration came out of mutual necessity, and has 
softened the attitude of some club members, and even a couple 
of the Trustees, towards human psychics and magicians. Their 
argument is that psychics and magicians are, in their own way, 
almost as inhuman as the Nightbanes themselves. 
Places of Interest 
Rehabilitation Camps 
In the year 2002, the Preserver Administration launched a 
program designed to "revolutionize penal institutions." This pro­
gram financed the opening of twenty-five Rehabilitation Camps 
throughout California, Texas and Florida - all places where 
warm weather made it easy to build housing. The Rehabilitation 
Camps use makeshift construction materials and rely on barbed 
wire and watchtowers to keep the prisoners in. The inmates are 
housed in wooden barracks and every day they are put to work 
in fields picking fruit, harvesting crops, and similar jobs. Most of 
the pay for those jobs goes to the State. The Preserver propa­
ganda paints these camps as the cheapest option available to deal 
with the criminal element. By 2004, twenty-one of the camps 
were paying for their own costs, and seven were even making a 
small profit. The propaganda overlooked the fact that the camps 
are, in fact, selling slave labor to wealthy farming concerns. The 
similarity between these places and concentration camps, or at 
least work camps, has not even been noted by the media. 
Life inside the camps is hellish. The prisoners are not locked 
in individual cells but placed in barracks. Cameras monitor each 
barrack; if any outbreak of violence occurs, pipes flood the 
structure with "nausea gas" (see the New Weapons section). A 
heavily-armed team of guards will then move in and proceed to 
"pacify" the barracks. Particularly unruly prisoners are placed in 
Solitary Confinement, a 6x6x6 foot ( 1 .8 by 1 .8 by 1 .8 m) box. 
The box has an air conditioner system, but it is always turned 
off, leaving the victim to broil in the usually hot conditions. 
Many who draw a tum in solitary also end up severely beaten by 
the guards. Career criminals who have tried to bribe or intimi­
date the guards have found themselves in solitary; to the last 
man, the guards in the Rehabilitation Camps are incorruptible, 
because they are Hollow Men (60%) and Dopplegangers (35%), 
as well as a few Ashmedai and similar creatures (5%). 
Disappearances at these camps are quite common. Sometimes 
an entire barrack of inmates won't show up for their daily work 
period, and are never heard from again; truckloads of replace­
ments usually arrive soon after. Typical excuses for these disap­
pearances are transfers or early releases, but soon most prisoners 
realize that these are lies, and that they may be next to suffer an 
unknown fate. Very few inmates have actually been released in 
the two to three years since the camps opened, because most of 
them had prison terms of at least five years. The few who are re­
leased for "good behavior" are typically Doppleganger replace­
ments sent out to infiltrate dissident groups or to carry out other 
tasks. 
The guards in these camps carry M- 16 rifles and will fire on 
full automatic at those attempting to escape, careless of any in-
138 
nocent bystanders (one of the reasons the camps are usually built 
away from populated areas). Other security systems include mo­
tion sensors "planted" in a perimeter around the barbed wire, 
guard dogs, and, it is rumored, anti-personnel mine fields placed 
alongside possible escape routes (a wrong step and the unfortu­
nate takes I D4x l O  damage! ). 
Spook Squad is constantly looking for ways to break more 
prisoners out. So far, most attempts have failed. 
Spook Squad Safe Houses 
A typical Spook Squad safe house looks completely normal 
from the outside. Common locales include farms, ranches, sum­
mer camps, vacation resorts, houses in the city, and buildings 
that appear to be condemned. Even before Dark Day, many of 
these locations were heavily protected by advanced security sys­
tems, including cameras, motion sensors, and more. Since then, 
the ADA has made each house into a small bunker, fortified and 
brimming with traps and weapons. Most front doors are armored 
and booby-trapped; if somebody knocks down the reinforced 
doors (A.R. 1 2, 350 S.D.C.), an explosive device is detonated, 
blasting a 10 foot (3 m) area (2D4x l O  damage). Typically a 
number of weapons will be in special, hidden places; most will 
be pistols and sub-machine guns, but these have been recently 
supplemented with grenades, assault rifles and other military­
grade equipment. 
More important than these defenses (which are only meant to 
slow down, not stop the enemy) are the escape routes Spook 
Squad engineers have built into most of these houses. Hidden 
passages and tunnels typically lead several hundred feet away 
from the buildings. City locales usually have tunnels connecting 
to the sewer system or subway, while countryside houses lead to 
other houses, barns and fields where vehicles are stored for just 
such an eventuality. 
As a last resort, most safe houses have a self-destruct device. 
These consist of incendiary bombs and are designed to destroy 
any information and evidence that might fall into the enemy's 
hands. The incendiary bombs will inflict I D6x l 00 S.D.C. to 
everything within the house and the fire will bum for 3D6 min­
utes, inflicting an additional I D6x 1000 points of damage and 
consuming anything that remains. Any files, computers and 
other information storage devices will be completely obliterated, 
as well as, (hopefully) any Nightlord minions caught in the blast. 
Extreme measures, but Spook Squad believes it's better to be 
safe than sorry. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Campaign & Adventure Ideas 
Covert Revolution 
One of the goals of Spook Squad is to destabilize the Ba'al­
run governments and try to "take America back." At the same 
time, secrecy is to be maintained to prevent panic and to pre­
serve the Squad's own secrets. This delicate balancing act de­
pends on covert operations: assassination, infiltration and small 
military operations hidden away from the public eye. Some­
times, secrecy may be more important than the mission itself, at 
least in the opinion of some pencil pushers micro-managing the 
operation. This may mean some agents risk being "left out in the 
cold" if things go wrong, and they may have to return to base by 
themselves or try to strike out on their own. Any theme from spy 
movies (from cinematic action to complex games of death and 
deceit) can be used in this campaign. 
Common O.C.C.s: All Spook Squad O.c.c.s, including Ex­
Federal Agents, former spies, former soldiers, police, etc. 
Enemies/Rivals: NSB agents (human and otherwise), Ash­
medai, Dopplegangers, Nightbane factions, independent Night­
bane, cults, and so on, might be involved. If it hits the fan, 
Hounds, Hunters and other cannon fodder creatures will be sent 
against them. 
Role-playing Hooks: Some character "types" can include the 
betrayed spy who will trust no one, the patriotic hero who trusts 
too much, the self-serving mercenary who does the right thing 
only by accident, the snitch, the traitor, and the spy (or double 
agent). 
Nightland Wars 
This campaign is centered around the Beachhead, Spook 
Squad's invasion of the Nightlands. The characters are humans 
facing the alien entities that prowl this dark world. They have 
their weapons and technology to deal with the supernatural pow­
ers of the enemy. All too often, this is not enough. As losses 
mount, the survivors start sacrificing their own humanity to fight 
their monstrous enemies. Desperate times breed desperate meas­
ures. 
139 
Common O.C.C.s: Any military O.C.c. will fit into this 
campaign. Additionally, the players can be researchers, scien­
tists, psychics, Nightbane or even sorcerers. Supernatural players 
are possible, but should probably be discouraged, since they 
might unbalance in a mostly-human group (or give the group its 
edge). 
Enemies/Rivals: Since most missions will be conducted in 
the Nightlands, the most common encounters will be with 
Hounds and Hunters. Although these creatures rely on primitive 
hand weapons, they are extremely dangerous due to their high 
A.R. and supernatural P.S. Other minions such as Dopplegang­
ers, Ashmedai and Hollow Men may be found, particularly in 
the Ba'al City States. Occasionally, other dwellers of the Night­
lands (whether or not they are associated with the Nightlords) 
may attack or cause trouble for the patrols. Nightbanes often 
venture into the Nightlands, and may be tentative allies or yet 
another enemy. 
Role-Playing Hooks: Many themes from war movies can be 
played out in this campaign, including psychological warfare 
and shell shock. Some possible character concepts include the 
"green" recruit, well-trained and eager to go to combat, but inex­
perienced to the horrors of the Nightlands; he may become the 
hero or the goat (or the pawn). The grizzled NCO veteran who is 
the soul of the squad or platoon. The decent but sometimes naive 
commanding officer, or the self-serving commander who takes 
advantage of the confusion of war to line his own pockets (or es­
cape danger) at the expense of others. 
Not all missions are conducted in the lifeless Wastes; some­
times combat teams will venture into the City States, where the 
soldiers may interact peacefully with Doppleganger renegades, 
Nightbanes, human ex-slaves and other unfortunates hiding out 
in the catacombs beneath the cities. 
Adventure Ideas: Plots from spy and war movies or TV 
shows like Combat, The Prisoner, and Space: Above & Beyond 
can be adapted to this campaign setting. The biggest challenge 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
for the Game Master is to keep things fresh and prevent the cam­
paign from degenerating into "shoot-out of the week" games. 
Some possible ideas include: 
Weapon Test: A new weapon system has been developed by 
Spook Squad's scientists (some possibilities include an energy 
cannon, new bullets, a sonic projector, etc.) and the players' 
team is given the task of testing it in the field. Any number of 
things can go wrong: the weapon may fail catastrophically, or it 
works fine -but it attracts the attention of a large force of 
Hounds and Hunters, or it falls into enemy hands and must be re­
trieved. The characters have to survive and make it back to their 
own lines, but without leading the Hounds to them, etc. 
Another classic is to have the members of the player group, 
along with some non-player characters, get captured by the en­
emy and placed in a prison camp, or holding area. Here, they 
must endure all manner of hardships (interrogation, torture, psy­
chological tests/games, infiltration, etc.) before they can finally 
escape, hopefully with new insight or valuable information 
about the enemy, or they may rescue other prisoners or a famous 
hero believed to have been killed. 
Other adventures in the Nightlands can include exploration, 
uncovering ancient weapons or artifacts (which the bad guys or 
bandits also want), helping a group or village of local inhabi­
tants, uncovering a Nightlord plot or spy operating on Earth, de­
veloping friendships with Nightbanes and Guardians, combating 
human traitors, etc. 
Astral Exploration & Politics 
The Astral Plane can easily become the focus of a campaign 
or mini-campaign. Just exploring the myriad domains and king­
doms that exist there can keep a group busy for dozens of game 
sessions. Game masters who wish to give their campaign a 
change of pace can use the Plane to drop the characters into a 
fantasy or science fiction domain, or some other kind of bizarre, 
alien or offbeat environment or situation. 
The characters may get involved in the intrigue and machina­
tions of the Astral Lords and their kingdoms. They might en­
counter (or be) ambassadors from one of the Nightbane factions 
or Spook Squad, trying to get help against the Nightlords. The 
Ba'al's expansion into the Astral Plane is a danger to every 
realm, but many Astral Lords and other rulers of these domains 
distrust each other, and getting them to cooperate will not be 
easy. Even worse, some "monarchs" may decide that they will 
benefit from an alliance with the Nightlords, and may betray the 
adventurers. Some of these lords are as despicable as the Ba'al 
and have their own agenda. 
Some of the rulers of the plane may require the characters to 
undertake quests or missions for them. Others may try to assassi­
nate the characters, or capture them and use them as a bargaining 
chip with the Nightlords. An atmosphere of paranoia and tension 
works best in adventures of this type. The characters' skills at 
negotiating, planning and manipulation may be of great impor­
tance; action and danger will always be a possibility. 
Common O.C.C.s: Astral lords and mages will be very use­
ful. Nightbanes, Guardians, psychics, astral travelers and others 
can also be allies, bodyguards and friends. Some players might 
even want to play some astral creature like the Tarantuloid or 
Millek, or perhaps a Necrophim. 
140 
Enemies/Rivals: The Ba'al have several types of minions op­
erating in the planes. The mysterious Necrophim may be ene­
mies, or allies of convenience. Entities have their own alien 
goals and agendas, and may befriend or betray the characters. 
Dream Wars ™ 
The Dark Day invasion did not limit itself to the waking 
world. The Ba'al already had a presence in the Dreamstream, 
and after they broke free from the Nightlands, they took steps to 
attack humans in their sleep! This is being accomplished by us­
ing their dream minions to twist or shatter the minds of thou­
sands, making them more docile victims, and even assassinating 
those who might be a threat. In this battlefield, the characters are 
fighting for the sanity of humankind. These heroes can be Night­
banes, Guardians, Dream Makers, psychics and magicians. Sev­
eral groups, such as the Order of Morpheus (see the 
Dreamstream Section), dedicate all their efforts to expel the 
Ba'al and their minions from this realm. The characters may be 
members of such a group, or occasionally lend them a hand. 
Another possibility is to conduct a campaign before Dark 
Day (or even completely unrelated to the Dark Day invasion), 
focusing mainly on the Dreamstream and the characters who 
venture there. The characters can belong to one of the organiza­
tions mentioned in the Dreamstream section, or can be on their 
own. Furthermore, all kinds of psycho-dramas, horror stories and 
surreal adventures can be played out in this realm of half-reali­
ties, nightmares and dreams. 
Common O.C.C.s: All the dream P.C.C.s will be very influ­
ential, but Nightbane, psychics and practitioners of magic are 
also appropriate. Even a Spook Squad agent might find his way 
into the Dreamstream (or be abducted into it). 
Enemies/Rivals: Dream creatures and Nightlord minions are 
the obvious choices, but independent personas, dream con­
structs, and all the fears, anxieties, guilt, desires and dark 
thoughts locked away in the subconscious can be unleashed with 
infinite possibilities. An interesting twist might be to take the 
characters' own dreams and tum them against him or the group. 
Anybody's fears, hopes and fantasies may all come to life in the 
Dreamstream to pester, endanger or enlighten them. 
Role-playing Hooks: Venturing into the Dreamstream means 
delving into the collective human consciousness, or entering the 
Dream Pool (mind) of a specific person - explore the possibili­
ties. Characters may discover a great deal about themselves and 
each other just by experiencing their dreams come to life. And 
don't forget, the Nightlords dream too. 
More Conversion Notes 
& Crossover Ideas 
A number of fan letters and reader comments requested more 
ways to mix and match Nightbane with other Palladium Megav­
erse settings. Detailed below are some more suggestions and op­
tional rules for integrating other Palladium RPG worlds with the 
concepts in Nightbane, particularly campaign and adventure 
ideas. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Heroes Unlimited ™ 
Superheroes and horror/dark fantasy can be mixed to interest­
ing effect, as witnessed by DC Comics' Vertigo line. Mutants, 
experimental subjects and other super-characters can be valuable 
allies in the war against the Nightlords. Some of the campaign 
ideas described below work on finding ways to mix a world 
where super-abilities are real with a place where Spook Squad 
plots and the Ba'al invade the Earth through supernatural means. 
Then there's the Dreamstream and Astral Plane, likely places 
imaginary and where not so imaginary super-powered beings 
can meet and collide in environments that are strange and alien 
or as common as the back alleys of any big city. 
Rule Adjustments 
These are some optional rules for adapting Heroes Unlimited 
to Nightbane. Game masters can do with them as they wish, of 
course. 
Supernatural P.S.: Stone and metal alterations, invulnerabil­
ity, increased strength and any power, mutant or alien charac­
teristic that gives strength bonuses all give the characters the 
equivalent of supernatural strength. Physical training does not 
grant supernatural strength, however. 
Invulnerability: Invulnerable characters are NOT immune to 
the attacks of supernatural creatures! Damage from supernatural 
strength, magic and psionic energies of Nightbanes, Guardians 
and minions of the Nightlords will inflict full (or half) damage 
even to otherwise invulnerable characters. If these characters re­
main invulnerable even to magic and the supernatural, they are 
certainly vulnerable through their dreams! 
What are the fears, gUilt and desires of a superhero? How will 
even the mightiest of heroes face his own inner hostilities and 
dark emotions in the Dreamstream? Likewise, invulnerable and 
super-powerful beings may not be as powerful or meet their 
match in the Dreamstream or in the Astral Plane where astral 
villains can mold their world into their own dark image. 
Magic: The magic system depicted in Heroes Unlimited does 
not use the more common, P.P.E. based system that is now 
standard throughout most Palladium lines (including the upcom­
ing Palladium Fantasy RPG, Second Edition). Game masters 
may want to adapt the spells from HU into the P.P.E. based sys­
tem found in the Nightbane RPG. 
Villains: Guilt Eaters, Furies, Living Nightmares, Soul Eat­
ers, astral lords, astral assassins, and other supernatural beings 
all make great super villains, just as Dream Makers, Dream 
Dancers, Psychic Detectives, Nightbane and others might make 
interesting superheroes and anti-heroes. 
Campaign and Adventure Ideas 
The Secret Invasion: Theirs was a world of heroes. Cos­
tumed crusaders had walked the Earth since World War II, and 
the sight of a caped hero flying over the skyscrapers of a city 
was something most people were used to. Heroes and villains 
slugged it out in heroic battles, and evil seemed easy to recog­
nize. Then Dark Day came. 
The Nightlords planned their strike with great care. During 
the twenty-four hours of darkness, many heroes (and villains) 
were taken by surprise and overwhelmed by Hounds, Hunters 
and other horrors. Most survivors were forced into hiding, and 
the fearful peoples of the Earth looked towards the darkening 
141 
skies for help - and saw nothing. Feeling betrayed, many com­
mon people turned against their former idols. Reports of mon­
strous "mutants" (the Nightbanes) further fueled the hysteria 
against ultra-humans. The Preserver Party ran on a platform of 
"preserving Earth for Humankind," targeting mutants, so-called 
superhumans, and ultra-humans as the cause of Dark Day and 
the ensuing chaos. Super-abilities are now considered to be in­
herently dangerous or evil, and those who exhibit them are 
marked for persecution or worse. 
Most heroes have abandoned their costumes and now live in 
hiding. Some blame the Nightbanes for their downfall, and at­
tack them on sight, unwittingly doing the Nightlords' work for 
them. Many others have discovered the terrible secret of the in­
vasion, and now fight side by side with Nightbanes, Guardians 
and Wampyrs. A few daring heroes still retain their costumes 
and try to act as living symbols of freedom, but they are often 
the first to fall, hunted by supernatural minions, super-villains 
(many of whom now serve the Nightlords), and rejected by most 
common people. Ironically, some villains and self-serving mas­
terminds are now fighting side by side with heroes, because they 
understand that the Nightlords are a common threat that must be 
dealt with. Some of these criminals, however, are still looking 
out for number one, and will try to take advantage of their new 
"allies" at the earliest opportunity. Other villains take advantage 
of the chaos and strike at heroes, freedom fighters and the Night­
lords alike. 
This would be a "gritty" super-heroic game, where most he­
roes have abandoned their colorful costumes and nicknames, and 
are involved in a long, inglorious, dirty war against an absolutely 
evil enemy. Ultra-humans and Nightbanes are considered equals 
in the eyes of the common man and the media: strange beings 
with great power, hated and feared. Even the ultra-humans' 
powers may not be enough to deal with such enemies. 
In this setting, the Spook Squad and other characters and 
creatures from this book would all fit in nicely. 
Arena: A group of astral travelers come upon a bizarre Astral 
Kingdom where beings with super-abilities are pitted against 
each other for the entertainment of a race of bizarre beings. The 
characters are captured and forced to fight in the Great Arena 
against these ultra-human champions. When (if) the travelers es­
cape, one or two renegade super-beings may follow them (new 
player characters, perhaps?). 
Ninjas and Superspies/Mystic China™ 
Martial artists from Ninjas and Superspies have the skills and 
mystic powers to stand alongside psychics, mages and other hu­
man champions in the war against the Nightlords. Superspies, 
with their gadgets and special equipment, can give Spook Squad 
a more "cinematic" feel, more James Bond than Tom Clancy, 
which may appeal to some players. The Mystic China supple­
ment adds even more special abilities, strange supernatural crea­
tures (like Immortals), and more magic stuff; all of which can be 
incorporated into a Nightbane campaign and vice versa. 
Campaign and Adventure Ideas 
Dragons Against the Darkness: The Silver Dragons, a se­
cret society of martial artists, has been founded in Asia to com­
bat the Nightlords. The Silver Dragons include not only martial 
artists but a number of Nightbanes, psychics, mystics and superJoe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
natural creatures. More information on the Silver Dragons and 
similar societies will be detailed in future Nightbane source­
books, but game masters with Ninjas and Superspies and/or 
Mystic China can adopt the concept of the Silver Dragons or a 
similar group in their campaigns. 
Creatures of the Night: Friends and associates of the charac­
ters (members of their Nightbane Faction, perhaps) are being 
murdered one by one. At first, it appears that the Nightlords are 
responsible. Eventually, however, the characters realize they and 
their friends are the target of a Ninja clan. Maybe the Ninja are 
in the employ of the Ba'al, or they stalk the characters for their 
own purposes. The shadow assassins will eventually pit their 
dark Chi powers against the Nightbanes in a fight to the death. 
The Evil Immortal: A group of Nightbanes crosses paths 
with an Evil Immortal (see Mystic China), a powerful martial 
artist and alchemist who, over the centuries, has amassed great 
power. In a historical campaign where the characters "live" 
through several centuries before the Dark Day invasion, this im­
mortal could be their nemesis, always managing to cheat death 
to torment the Nightbanes another day. Now, the immortal is the 
overlord of a city's Chinatown; the Nightlord in charge of that 
city is trying to destroy this obstacle. The characters must decide 
whether or not to help their old enemy, or to destroy him even if 
this means a victory for the Nightlords! Or the characters could 
get caught in the middle of a war between Nightlord minions 
and the martial-arts trained servants of the immortal master. 
Rifts® 
The Rifts setting, with its links to the entire Megaverse, is one 
of the most likely sources of crossover games, characters, mon­
sters, elements, other dimensions (like the Astral Plane and 
Dreamstream) and adventures. Integrating characters and themes 
from Nightbane into Rifts (and vice versa) can add even more 
levels to the campaign. Outlined below are a few more such 
ideas. 
Rule Adjustments 
These are some optional rules to adapt Nightbane to Rifts and 
vice versa. Game Masters should feel free to modify them to suit 
their own tastes and the needs of their campaign. 
Nightbane M.D.C. Conversions: On Rifts Earth, Nightbanes 
are S.D.C. beings in their Facade form, and M.D.C. beings in 
Morphus form. In the latter shape, take their S.D.C. and hit 
points and transform them into M.D.C. on a one to one basis. 
Nightbanes regenerate 10 M.D.C. points per melee round; their 
powers inflict mega-damage and their strength is supernatural as 
per the Rifts Conversion Book One, page 22. The Coalition 
States will regard them as dangerous, baby-eating monsters to be 
hunted down and destroyed. Places like Lazlo will accept them 
as fellow inhumans, and Tolkeen and the Federation of Magic 
will recruit them in their armies to oppose the CS. Playing a 
Nightbane in Rifts would be cool. 
Guardians and Wampyrs are also supernatural beings with 
M.D.C. points equivalent to their S.D.C. and Hit Points com­
bined. 
Nightbanes and Other Races: The Facade of a Nightbane 
can belong to any non-supernatural humanoid (and human­
sized) race, although most (90%) Nightbane are human. This in­
cludes such races as Elves, Dwarves, True Atlaneans, and 
similar human-like races. No supernatural race (includes races 
142 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
with supernatural strength, large amounts of S.D.C. (100+) or 
any mega-damage beings or creatures of magic) are never Night­
bane. 
Nightbanes and Special Enhancements: Nightbanes cannot 
accept bionics in either Morphus or Facade form. Characters 
whose Facades have lost limbs can have them replaced with cy­
bernetic prosthetics or bio-systems; these prosthetics disappear 
when the Morphus form is assumed. All other cybernetic im­
plants and bionics are expelled out of the body of the Facade in a 
matter of 2D6 hours (the Morphus will expel them in 2D4 melee 
rounds!). This is true even for Nightbanes with Biomechanical 
characteristics (remember, these biomechanicals are not "real" 
but simply a shape adopted by the character). Furthermore, 
magical enhancements like bio-wizardry, tattoo magic, Nazca 
runes, and transformation rituals or circles, have NO effect on 
either the Facade or Morphus of the character. Even latent 
Nightbanes cannot get magic tattoos (or, more precisely, can 
have tattoos imprinted on them but they will not work). This will 
reveal the fact that they are not truly human. 
Rifts Races on Nightbane Earth: Normal S.D.C. races re­
quire no changes; supernatural (M.D.C.) species use their 
M.D.C. as S.D.C. points; Hit Points may be two or three times 
greater than normal, depending on how powerful the Game Mas­
ter wants the creatures to be. So, for example, a hatchling dragon 
would have I D4x100 S.D.C. and P.E. x2 hit points, plus 2D6 hit 
points per level. The largest and most powerful M.D.C. beings 
may require further reductions (adult dragons might only have 
one-half of their normal M.D.C. converted to S.D.C.), or might 
not be allowed at all (they may be inappropriate, over-powering, 
or funky). Any unusual natural powers will inflict normal S.D.C. 
damage. 
Technology and Armor on Nightbane Earth: Bringing 
M.D.C. weapons and armor into the world of Nightbane would 
be completely unbalancing. The quickest fix for this is suggested 
on page 203 of the Nightbane RPG: any non-organic object en­
tering that world is disintegrated. This would make it impossible 
for 'borgs, power armor, robots, and other characters to enter 
this world. Some players and game masters may find such a so­
lution unfair, so here are two other "fixes" to deal with this situ­
ation: 
SD.C. Switch: This solution was suggested in the Conversion 
Book One; simply convert all M.D.C. damage and values to 
S.D.C. on a one to one basis. While this will not unbalance the 
campaign, players will be disappointed when they discover that 
their weapons and armor may be less effective than their 20th 
Century equivalents! 
SD.C. Conversion: Alternatively, the G.M. may convert 
M.D.C. to S.D.C. on a 1 to 5, or I to 10 bases (i.e., 1 point of 
M.D.C. is equivalent to 5 or lO points of S.D.C.). By doing this, 
ultra-tech body armor and weapons will be much more effective 
than Earth equivalents - although most weapon systems will 
not be able to get repairs and maintenance under such primitive 
conditions. Sooner or later, characters will have to abandon their 
advanced weapons when they run out of E-clips or when power 
armor is severely damaged. Furthermore, the Nightlords and 
groups like Spook Squad are likely to hunt these characters 
down and try to capture them and their equipment for study. Be 
careful not to create characters that are too powerful. 
143 
The Nightlords™ & their Minions 
in the Rifts® Setting 
The Nightlords themselves: In the P.P.E. rich environment 
of Rifts Earth, the Ba'al's powers would be increased to god-like 
levels. Their powers would inflict equivalents in mega-damage. 
Their M.D.C. while on such places as Rifts Earth, Wormwood 
and Phase World would be 3D4x l ,000, making them the match 
for alien intelligences, godlings and lesser gods. These powers, 
coupled with their numbers (possibly hundreds of them), would 
make the Nightlords a serious danger. However, it is probably 
best not to have the Nightlords invade the Earth with plans of 
conquest, but to have one or two expeditionary forces or rogue 
Nightlords (and their loyal minions) establish a small stronghold 
or kingdom on Rifts Earth. Likewise, the Ba'al may visit Rifts 
Earth periodically as dimensional raiders, or as mercenaries or 
allies of another supernatural force. 
Of all the evil powers on Rifts Earth, the Ba'al would be most 
closely linked to the Horsemen of the Apocalypse (see Rifts 
World Book Four: Africa). Like the Horsemen, the Nightlords' 
goal appears to be the destruction of all life. The Nightlords 
might also pay homage to the Lord of the Deep (see Rifts Un­
derseas), who may belong to the unknown "pantheon" wor­
shipped by these malevolent beings. On the other hand, the 
Splugorth, Myrrlin and his master, the vampire intelligences of 
Central and South America and Inix of Cibola would be seen as 
enemies to be eliminated (and vice versa). Alliances of conven­
ience with any of the above entities, except vampires, would be 
considered at first, but neither side could trust the other to keep 
its promises. 
Rifts® Campaign and Adventure Ideas 
The Hunted: Nightbanes traveling the Astral Plane are pur­
sued by a team of Splugorth Conservators (see Rifts World Book 
Two: Atlantis) who have used magical means to travel into the 
Plane (double their body M.D.C. to determine astral S.D.C.). 
Which will prevail, Nightbane talents or alien bio-wizardry? The 
hunt can be conducted in the plane itself or an Astral domain or 
kingdom. If the Conservators win, they might choose to enslave 
rather than kill the Nightbanes. Next stop: the Atlantis Arena! 
Rifted Adrift: A group of adventurers from Rifts Earth are 
swept away by a dimensional maelstrom and find themselves on 
Nightbane Earth! All their high-tech equipment is lost during the 
dimensional disturbance, and they must rely on their skills and 
smarts to survive. They will face persecution from the NSB and 
Nightlords, and may find allies among the Nightbanes or other 
factions. Ambitious and resourceful characters may try to ad­
vance the technology of 2 1  st Century Earth, helping enhance ex­
isting weapon systems. A techno-wizard might be extremely 
useful to Spook Squad and similar organizations. 
Random Rifts: Rifts characters can get accidentally, ran­
domly, or deliberately Rifted to the Nightlands, Nightbane 
Earth, the Astral Plane, or the Dreamstream. 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Experience Point Tables 
Fonner Special Forces/ 
Team Epsilon Trooper, 
ADA & PAB Field Agent, 
Pandora Project Researcher, 
Ex-Government Agent 
1 0,000- 1 ,900 
2 1 ,900-3,800 
3 3,801 -7,300 
4 7,30 1 - 14,300 
5 14,30 1 -2 1 ,000 
6 2 1 ,001 -3 1 ,000 
7 3 1 ,001 -4 1 ,000 
8 41 ,00 1 -53,000 
9 53,00 1 -73,000 
10 73,00 1 - 103,000 
1 1  1 03,00 1 - 1 38,000 
1 2  1 38,00 1 - 1 88,000 
1 3  1 88,001 -238,000 
1 4  238,001 -288,000 
1 5  288,001 -328,000 
Dream Maker, 
Dream Dancer, 
Astral Lord 
1 0,000-2,500 
2 2,501 -5,000 
3 5,00 1 - 10,000 
4 1 0,001 -20,000 
5 20,001 -30,000 
6 30,001 -50,000 
7 50,001 -80,000 
8 80,000 1 - 120,000 
9 1 20,00 1 - 1 70,000 
1 0  170,001 -225,000 
1 1  225,001 -275,000 
1 2  275 ,001 -350,000 
1 3  350,001 -420,000 
14 420,001 -520,000 
1 5  520,001 -700,000 
Arcane Detective, 
P AB Psychic Agent 
1 0,000-2,300 
2 2,301 -4,600 
3 4,601 -9,200 
4 9,20 1 - 1 8,400 
5 1 8,401 -26,500 
6 26,501 -36,600 
7 36,60 1 -5 1 ,700 
8 5 1 ,701 -7 1 ,800 
9 7 1 ,801 -96,900 
1 0  96,90 1 - 1 37,000 
1 1  1 37,00 1 - 1 88,100 
1 2  1 88,101 -229,200 
1 3  229,201 -289,200 
1 4  289,201 -355,400 
1 5  355,401 -420,800 
• 
Torturian, 
Turantuloid Warrior 
1 0,000-2,050 
2 2,05 1 -4, 1 00 
3 4, 101 -8,250 
4 8,25 1 - 1 6,500 
5 1 6,501 -24,600 
6 24,601 -34,700 
7 34,701 -49,800 
8 49,801 -69,900 
9 69,001 -95,000 
10 95,000- 1 30, 1 00 
1 1  1 30, 1 0 1 - 1 80,200 
1 2  1 80,201 -230,300 
1 3  230,301 -280,400 
14 280,401 -340,500 
1 5  340,501 -400,600 
Dream Ghouls, 
Astral Entities 
1 0,000-2,240 
2 2,241 -4,480 
3 4,48 1 -8,960 
4 8,96 1 - 17,920 
5 17,921 -25,920 
6 25,921 -35,920 
7 35,92 1 -50,920 
8 50,92 1 -70,920 
9 70,921 -95,920 
10 95,92 1 - 1 35,920 
1 1  1 35,92 1 - 1 85,920 
1 2  1 85,921 -225,920 
1 3  225,921 -275,920 
14 275,921 -335,920 
1 5  335,921 -395,920 
'Kinetic, 
Genius & Natural, 
Psi-Mechanic 
1 0,000-2, 1 20 
2 2, 1 2 1 -4,240 
3 4,241 -8,480 
4 8,48 1 - 16,960 
5 1 6,961 -24,960 
6 24,96 1 -34,960 
7 34,961 -49,960 
8 49,96 1 -69,960 
9 69,96 1 -94,960 
10 94,961 - 1 29,960 
1 1  1 29,96 1 - 1 79,960 
1 2  1 79,96 1 -229,960 
1 3  229,961 -279,960 
14 279,961 -329,960 
1 5  329,96 1 -389,960 
• 
144 
Necrophim 
1 0,000-2,700 
2 2,701 -5,400 
3 5,40 1 - 10,800 
4 1 0,80 1 -2 1 ,600 
5 2 1 ,601 -3 1 ,600 
6 3 1 ,601 -42,800 
7 42,801 -62,000 
8 62,001 -90,000 
9 90,00 1 - 120,000 
1 0  1 20,00 1 - 170,000 
1 1  1 70,001 -220,000 
1 2  220,00 1 -280,000 
1 3  280,001 -370,000 
1 4  370,001 -480,000 
1 5  480,001 -650,000 
Millek, 
Mind Master, 
Astral Mage 
1 0,000-2,600 
2 2,60 1 -5,000 
3 5,00 1 - 10,000 
4 10,001 -20,000 
5 20,00 1 -30,000 
6 30,001 -50,000 
7 50,001 -80,000 
8 80,00 1 - 1 30,000 
9 1 30,00 1 - 1 80,000 
1 0  1 80,001 -230,000 
1 1  230,001 -290,000 
1 2  290,001 -370,000 
1 3  370,001 -480,000 
1 4  480,001 -575,000 
1 5  575,001 -750,000 
Mountebank, 
Turantuloid Mystic 
1 0,000-2,400 
2 2,601 -4,600 
3 4,601 -9,200 
4 9,20 1 - 1 8,400 
5 18,401 -28,300 
6 28,301 -48,000 
7 48,00 1 -78,000 
8 78,00 1 - 1 1 0,000 
9 1 10,00 1 - 1 50,000 
1 0  1 50,001 -200,000 
1 1  200,001 -250,000 
1 2  250,00 1 -3 1 0,000 
1 3  3 10,001 -380,000 
1 4  380,001 -470,000 
1 5  470,001 -600,000 
Morpheomoth, 
Living Nightmare 
1 0,000-3,000 
2 3,001 -6,000 
3 6,00 1 - 1 2,000 
4 1 2,001 -24,000 
5 24,001 -50,000 
6 50,001 -80,000 
7 80,00 1 - 1 20,000 
8 1 20,00 1 - 170,00 
9 1 70,001 -220,000 
10 220,001 -290,000 
1 1  290,001 -375,000 
1 2  375,001 -450,000 
1 3  450,001 -525,000 
14 525,001 -625,000 
1 5  625,001 -875,000 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
● Imagine Earth transformed into an alien landscape.
● Humans exist – barely. And we are not alone.
● Aliens and monsters emerge from the RiŌs – holes torn in the fabric of 
space and Ɵme, connected to countless worlds and realiƟes.
● Ancient gods, demons and magic have returned.
● Magic and technology clash.
● Hund
● Hundreds of character classes, many inhuman.
● RiŌs® UlƟmate EdiƟon is the core RPG rule book.
● Expansive world seƫng with 90+ sourcebooks to draw upon.
● RiŌs®, your portal to endless adventure.
● Limited only by your imaginaƟon.
Other RPG Worlds from Palladium Books®:
● RiŌs® – the ulƟmate role-playing experience.
● RiŌs® Chaos Earth® – Play the apocalypse as it happens.
● Splicers® – Weird science. Bio-tech baƩles insane robot legions.
● Robotech® RPG – All eras of the TV show brought to life.
● Dead Reign® RPG – Can you survive the Zombie Apocalypse?
● Palladium Fantasy RPG® – Unique world, monsters as player characters, 
magic and more.
● 
Heroes 
Unlimited™ 
RPG 
– 
Play 
any 
hero; 
mutants, 
aliens, 
cyborgs, 
superhumans, mages, immortals and more.
● Nightbane® RPG – Conspiracy, magic, horror and monsters.
● Beyond the Supernatural™ RPG – Modern horror and suspense.
● Ninjas and Superspies™, and more.
www.palladiumbooks.com
© 2014 Palladium Books. RiŌs®, Megaverse®, Nightbane® and other Ɵtles, slogans and likenesses are trademarks of Palladium Books, Inc.    
Palladium Books - 39074 Webb Court, Westland, MI 48185 USA – 734-271-2903 order line.
®
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
© 2014 Palladium Books. Robotech®, Robotech® The Shadow Chronicles®, Macross® Saga and other Ɵtles and likenesses are trademarks of Harmony Gold USA, Inc. Palladium Books - 39074 Webb Court, Westland, MI 48185 USA – 734-271-2903 order line.
www.palladiumbooks.com
®
Rol
e-Pl
ayi
ng Game and Sourcebooks
● Four generations of heroes and mecha ● Giant transformable robots ● Alien 
invaders ● Battle for control of the Earth ● Combat takes to the stars ● All presented in a core rule book and dynamic set of epic sourcebooks ● Easy to learn 
● Fun to play ● Quick character generation ● Fast combat ● Captures the action 
and adventure of the anime TV series ● Isn’t it time you joined the adventure?
Robotech® “Core Rules” – Shadow Chronicles® RPG Hardcover
All the rules and informaƟon a player needs to start a Robotech® 
role-playing campaign with Admiral Rick Hunter and the United Earth 
ExpediƟonary Force trekking across the galaxy.
● Human mecha: Alphas, Betas, Cyclones & much more.
● Five character classes. 25 diﬀerent Military SpecialƟes.
● I
● Invid mecha, Haydonites, and alien enemies.
● Quick roll character tables. Make a character in 15 minutes.
● A complete, stand-alone RPG.
● 224 pages. Cat. No. 550HC. 8½ x 11 size, hardcover.
Robotech®: The Macross® Saga Sourcebook – Cat. No. 551
A 
treasure 
chest 
packed 
with 
the 
iconic 
mecha, 
vehicles, 
weapons 
and 
characters that made Robotech® famous. Valkyries, Destroids, ground 
vehicles, aircraŌ, spacecraŌ, weapons, Zentraedi soldiers, Zentraedi 
mecha, alien invaders, heroes, villains, and more.
● All the iconic Macross mecha, vehicles, weapons & characters.
Robotech®: The Masters Saga™ Sourcebook – Cat. No. 552
Tons of never before seen stats and descripƟons for the many 
weapons, armor, mecha and robots of the Army of the Southern Cross.
● The Army of the Southern Cross™ – all 15 branches and their mecha!
Robotech®: New GeneraƟon™ Sourcebook – Cat. No. 554
The baƩle for the liberaƟon of Earth starts here.
● Ki
● Kit-bashed mecha combining parts from diﬀerent mecha.
● Invid Hives, world overview, key characters and adventure ideas.
Robotech®: Genesis Pits™ Sourcebook – Cat. No. 555
The Invid Genesis Pits, their purpose, funcƟon.
● Inorganics and other war machines of the Invid Regent.
● Genesis Pit mutaƟons and monsters.
Robotech®: ExpediƟonary Marines Sourcebook – Cat. No. 553
 Join the UEEF (United Earth ExpediƟonary Force) led by Admiral Rick 
Hunter as they travel across the galaxy liberaƟng planets from the 
bondage of the Invid Regent, the Robotech Masters and other tyrants.
● New mecha, weapons, and character classes of the UEEF Marines.
● New alien species and allies. Planet hopping and more.
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
© Palladium Books Inc. Robotech® is a Registered Trademark of Harmony Gold USA, Inc.
Palladium Books, 39074 Webb Court, Westland, MI 48185-7606. Order line: 734-721-2903.
www.palladiumbooks.com
Zentraedi Glaug Command™ – Cat. No. 55403
This 
diverse 
pack 
provides 
your 
Zentraedi 
forces 
with 
greater 
tacƟcal 
capabiliƟes; three game pieces total. $36.95 retail.
● 1 Glaug Oﬃcer’s BaƩlepod – the fast and deadly mecha of Zentraedi 
ﬁeld leaders.
● 1 Quel-Regult Scout BaƩlepod – the stealthy eyes and ears of your 
Zentraedi baƩle force; electronic warfare capabiliƟes.
● 1 Quel-Gulnau Recovery Pod – enhances the Glaug’
s ability to bring 
in BaƩlepod reinforcements. Note: This ﬁgure has NEVER before 
been oﬀered by any company.
Zentraedi ArƟllery BaƩlepods™ – Cat. No. 55402
Give your Zentraedi legion greater ﬁrepower with these arƟllery and 
support BaƩlepods; four game pieces total. $36.95 retail.
● 4 Zentraedi Support BaƩlepods, each of which can be made into:
Gluuhaug-Regult – Light ArƟllery BaƩlepod
Serauhaug-Regult – Heavy ArƟllery BaƩlepod
Telnesta-Regult – Experimental ParƟcle Beam BaƩlepod
Four game pieces total.
Zentraedi Regult BaƩlepods™ – Cat. No. 55401
Expand your Zentraedi forces with their main infantry baƩle mecha; 
six game pieces total. $36.95 retail.
● 6 
Regult 
TacƟcal 
BaƩlepods 
– 
the 
lightning 
quick 
Regults, 
armed 
with 
a 
pair of parƟcle cannons and auto-cannons, aƩack in wave aŌer wave.
UEDF Spartan/Phalanx Destroids™ – Cat. No. 55203
Add some long-range power and up-close punch to your army with 
these valuable Destroids; four game pieces total. $32.95 retail.
● 2 Spartan Destroids – civil defense, riot control and deadly in hand to 
hand combat.
● 2 Phalanx Destroids – a walking, long-range missile arƟllery unit.
UEDF 
Tomahawk/Defender 
Destroids™ 
– 
Cat. 
No. 
55202
Expand your Destroid squad with these formidable walking tanks; 
four game pieces total. $32.95 retail.
● 2 Tomahawk Destroids – the main baƩle tank of Destroids, brimming 
with powerful parƟcle beam cannons for arms, and wielding a 
baƩery of missiles and an array of other weapons.
● 2 Defender Destroids – a long-range, anƟ-aircraŌ juggernaut capable 
of shooƟng down incoming Zentraedi BaƩlepods and Gnerl Fighters.
UEDF Valkyrie Wing™
– Cat. No. 55201
Build your ﬂeet of Earth defenders with the Valkyrie Veritech 
Fighter; six game pieces total. $36.95 retail.
● 2 Valkyries in Fighter mode.
● 2 Valkyries in Guardian mode.
● 
● 2 Valkyries in BaƩloid mode.
● MulƟple heads for making the VF-1A, VF-1J, VF-1R & VF-1S.
Note: Each product contains plasƟc game pieces requiring assembly and painƟng. Glue not included. This is not a toy. Small parts, not suitable for children under the 
age of 13. Adult supervision advised. Images shown here are not to scale.
A fast-paced, strategy baƩle game that captures the speed and acƟon of Robotech®. 
Play Earth defenders or Zentraedi invaders.
● Scalable from small squad skirmishes to mass baƩles.
● Turn-based system of play and uses D6. Two or more players.
● 34 highly detailed game pieces. 6mm scale.
● 112 page color rule book with paint guide and index.
● 53 laminated, color game cards.
● 24 cu
● 24 custom dice, two decal sheets and more.
● Assembly and painƟng required. Glue not included.
● $99.95 retail – Cat. No. 55100 – shipping now!
● Available in North and South America, the EU, Australia & New Zealand.
Main Boxed Game – Cat. No. 55100 – Available Now!
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
www.palladium books.com
© Copyright 2017 Palladium Books Inc. 
All rights reserved. Rifts®, Palladium Books®, Megaverse®, Nightbane®, Dead Reign®, Heroes Unlimited and other published book titles, names, slogans and likenesses are trademarks of Palladium Books Inc.
Beyond the Supernatural
™ RPG        Nightbane® RPG
Other horror titles from Palladium Books
®
Fear the Reaper
™ Sourcebook
 Heroes who, like knights of old, travel the highways fighting zombies 
and helping survivors.
● Comprehensive background on the Road Reapers.
● Their code, missions, weapons, strategies and tactics.
● The Terror Zombie and more.
● $12.95 
● $12.95 retail – 48 pages – Cat. No. 234. 
Available now.
Graveyard Earth™ Sourcebook
 The Zombie Apocalypse across the globe; provides a world overview 
and many adventure ideas.
● Many tables for settings, encounters and adventure hooks.
● Random Safe Havens by region, and Survivor Leaders.
● How to get home from abroad, zombie threat levels & more.
● $12.95 
● $12.95 retail – 64 pages – Cat. No. 235. 
Available now.
Hell Followed™ Sourcebook
 This big, 160 page sourcebook begins to redefine the zombie genre. It 
broadens the field of possibilities and expands upon the modern zombie 
mythos. It is full of twists and surprises you will not expect.
● 11 new types of terrifying zombies.
● 7 player characters, plus Masked Lunatics – heroes or madmen?
● 21 disasters to complicate survival, and urban survival.
● 21 disasters to complicate survival, and urban survival.
● Government enclaves, conspiracy theories and more.
● $20.95 retail – 160 pages – Cat. No. 236. 
Available now.
The Dead Reign® RPG series
Dead Reign® RPG – “Core Rules.” It is the aftermath of the zombie 
apocalypse. The dead reign and the living fight against impossible odds. 
Can you survive? Find out with this fast-paced horror game. Easy to 
learn. Fast character creation and combat.
● Zombie combat and survival rules, vehicles and equipment.
● 
● 6 iconic Character Classes plus Ordinary People (40+ occupations).
● 7 types of zombies, plus the Half-Living.
● 101 Random Scenarios, Encounters, Settings and other tables.
● $22.95 retail – 224 pages – Cat. No. 230. 
Available now.
Civilization Gone
™ Sourcebook
Civilization has crumbled to nothing. There is no army. No government. No help coming. What now?
● Madmen, Psychopaths, villains, heroes and protectors.
● House, home and survivor camp tables, resources & encounters.
● $12.92 retail – 64 pages – Cat. No. 231. 
Available now.
Dark Places
™ Sourcebook
Travel the rails and urban underground to move about undetected by 
zombies.
● Worm Meat, Bug Boy, Sewer Crawler & Impersonator Zombies.
● Traveling the rails, sewers and other dark places.
● Random encounter tables, boxcar content tables, and much more.
● $12.92 retail – 64 pages – Cat. No. 232. 
Available now.
Endless Dead™ Sourcebook
The zombies grow in number and strangeness. Can humankind 
survive?
● Zombie amalgamations, tables and encounters.
● New playe
● New player characters & timetables for your campaign.
● Weaponizing vehicles, vehicle combat rules, and military bases.
● Creating survivor caravans, hideouts, Safe Havens & more.
● $16.95 retail – 96 pages – Cat. No. 233. 
Available now.
Can YOU survive the Zombie 
Apocalypse?
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
Palladium Books® Check List & Order Form
Dept. P-16, 39074 Webb Court, Westland, MI 48185
Name:                                                                           Address:                                                                                                                   
City:                                                                                   State:                        Zip/Postal Code:                      Country:                        
Credit Card Number:                                                                                      Expiration Date:                            Visa       MasterCard
Telephone Number:                                                            Signature:                                                                          AMEX       Other
The Rifter® Series
       175 The Rifter® #75 – $13.95
       176 The Rifter® #76 – $13.95
       177 The Rifter® #77 – $13.95
       178 The Rifter® #78 – $13.95
       179 The Rifter® #79 – $13.95
Splicers®      Note: Sourcebooks coming soon.
       200 Splicers® RPG – $23.95
Dead Reign®
       230 Dead Reign® RPG – $22.95
       231 SB 1: Civilization Gone™ – $12.95
       232 SB 2: Dark Places™ – $12.95
       233 SB 3: Endless Dead™ – $16.95
       234 SB 4: Fear the Reaper™ – $12.95
       235 SB 5: Graveyard Earth™ – $12.95
       236 SB 6: Hell Followed™ – $20.95
       237 SB 7: In the Face of Death™ (coming)
Rifts® Novels
       301 Sonic Boom™ – $9.95
       302 Deception’s Web™ – $9.95
       303 Treacherous Awakenings™ – $9.95
       304 Tales of the Chi-Town ‘Burbs™ – $12.95
       305 Rifts® Path of the Storm™ – $12.95
Weapons Books
       401 Weapons and Armor™ – $8.95
       402 Weapons and Castles™ – $8.95
       403 Weapons and Assassins™ – $9.95
       404 Weapons & Castles of the Orient™ – $9.95
       409 Exotic Weapons™ – $9.95
       410 European Castles™ – $9.95
Palladium Fantasy RPG®
       450 The Palladium Fantasy RPG® – $26.95
       4500HC Palladium Fantasy RPG® 30th 
Anniversary Hardcover – $50.00
       451 Dragons & Gods™ – $24.95
       453 Old Ones™ 2nd Ed. – $24.95
       454 Monsters & Animals™ 2nd Ed. – $24.95
       455 Adventures on the High Seas™ – $24.95
       458 Island at the Edge of the World™ – $20.95
       459 Yin-Sloth Jungles™ – $20.95
       462 Western Empire™ – $24.95
       463 Baalgor Wastelands™ – $24.95
       464 Mount Nimro™ – $20.95
       465 Eastern Territory™ – $24.95
       466 Library of Bletherad™ – $20.95
       467 Northern Hinterlands™ – $24.95
       468 Land/Damned 1: Chaos Lands™ – $24.95
       469 LoD 2: Eternal Torment™ – $24.95
       470 LoD 3: The Citadel – $24.95 (coming)
       471 Wolfen Empire™ – $20.95
       472 Mysteries of Magic™ One: Heart of 
Magic – $16.95
       474 Bizantium/Northern Islands™ – $20.95
       475 Garden of the Gods™ – $16.95 (coming)
Heroes Unlimited™ / After the Bomb®
       500-2 Heroes Unlimited™, 2nd Ed. – $26.95
       5000HC Heroes Unlimited™ 30th Anniversary Hardcover – $50.00
       501 Villains Unlimited™ Revised – $24.95
       503 After the Bomb® RPG – $24.95
       505 Road Hogs™ (After the Bomb® II) – 
$9.95
       507 Mutants Down Under™ (AB III) – $9.95
       511 Mutants of the Yucatan™ (AB IV) – $9.95
       513 Mutants in Avalon™ (AB V) – $16.95
       514 Mutants in Orbit™ (AB VI) – $16.95
       515 Aliens Unlimited™ – $24.95
       516 Heroes Unlimited™ G.M.’s Guide – 
$24.95
       517 Century Station™ – $24.95
       518 Gramercy Island™ – $24.95
       519 Aliens Unlimited Galaxy Guide™ – 
$24.95
       520 Mutant Underground™ – $16.95
       521 Powers Unlimited® One – $16.95
       522 Powers Unlimited® Two – $16.95
       523 Powers Unlimited® Three – $16.95
       525 Revised Ninjas & Superspies™ – $20.95
       526 Mystic China™ – $24.95
       527 Armageddon Unlimited™ – $20.95
Robotech® RPG
       550 Robotech® The Shadow Chronicles® 
RPG (manga size) – $16.95
       550HC Robotech® The Shadow Chronicles® Deluxe Hardcover RPG – $30.95
       5500HC Robotech® The Shadow Chronicles® Gold Ed. Hardcover RPG – $70.00
       551 Robotech® Macross® Saga Sourcebook – $16.95
       552 Robotech® The Masters Saga™ 
Sourcebook (NEW in 8½ x 11) – $20.95
       553 Robotech®: Expeditionary Force 
Marines Sourcebook – $20.95
       554 Robotech® The New Generation™ 
Sourcebook – $16.95
       555 Robotech® Genesis Pits Sourcebook – 
$16.95
Robotech® RPG Tactics™  (New!)
       55100 Robotech® RPG Tactics™ – $99.95
       55105 Robotech® RPG Tactics™ Rulebook – $20.00
       55101 UEDF Dice Pack – $12.00
       55102 Zentraedi Dice Pack – $12.00
       55201 UEDF Valkyrie Wing – $36.95
       55202 UEDF Destroid Pack – $32.95
       55203 UEDF Spartan Pack – $32.95
       55401 Zentraedi Regult Battlepods – $36.95
       55402 Zentraedi Artillery Battlepods – $36.95
       55403 Zentraedi Glaug Command – $36.95
Rifts® Chaos Earth®
       660 Rifts® Chaos Earth® RPG – $20.95
       661 Rifts® CE Creatures of Chaos™ – $12.95
       662 Rifts® CE The Rise of Magic™ – $12.95
       665 Rifts® Chaos Earth® First Responders™ 
– $16.95 (coming)
       666 Rifts® Chaos Earth® Resurrection™ 
– $20.95
Beyond the Supernatural™
       700 Beyond the Supernatural™, 2nd Ed. 
– $24.95
       702 Tome Grotesque™ – $20.95 (coming)
       703 Beyond Arcanum™ – $24.95 (coming)
Nightbane®
       730 Nightbane® RPG – $24.95
       731 Nightbane®: Between the Shadows™ 
– $20.95
       732 Nightbane®: Nightlands™ – $20.95
       733 Nightbane®: Through the Glass 
Darkly™ – $20.95
       735 Nightbane® Survival Guide™ – $20.95
       736 Nightbane® Dark Designs™ – $20.95
Rifts®
       800HC Rifts® RPG Ultimate Edition – $39.95
       801 Rifts® Sourcebook One Revised – $20.95
       802-E Rifts® World Book 1: Vampire Kingdoms™, Revised – $24.95
       803 Rifts® Conversion Book One™ – $24.95
       804 Rifts® WB 2: Atlantis™ – $20.95
       805 Rifts® Sourcebook 2: Mechanoids™ 
– $16.95
       807 Rifts® WB 3: England™ – $20.95
       808 Rifts® WB 4: Africa™ – $20.95
       809 Rifts® Dimension Book 1: Wormwood™ – $20.95
       810 Rifts® WB 5: Triax™ – $24.95
       811 Rifts® Pantheons of the Megaverse® 
– $24.95
       812 Rifts® Sourcebook 3: Mindwerks™ 
– $16.95
       813 Rifts® Mercenaries™ – $20.95
       814 Rifts® WB 6: South America – $20.95
       815 Rifts® WB 7: Underseas™ – $24.95
       816 Rifts® DB 2: Phase World® – $24.95
       817 Rifts® DB 3: Phase World® Sourcebook – $16.95
       818 Rifts® WB 8: Rifts® Japan™ – $24.95
       819 Rifts® WB 9: South America Two™ 
– $24.95
       820 Rifts® WB 10: Juicer Uprising™ – 
$20.95
       821 Rifts® WB 11: Coalition War Campaign™ – $24.95
       822 Rifts® WB 12: Psyscape™ – $20.95
       825 Rifts® WB 13: Lone Star™ – $20.95Rifts® WB 14: New West™ – $24.95
       827 Rifts® WB 15: Spirit West™ – $24.95
       828 Rifts® Sourcebook 4: Coalition 
Navy™ – $16.95
       829 Rifts® WB 16: Federation of Magic™ 
– $20.95
       830 Rifts® DB 4: Skraypers™ – $20.95
       831 Rifts® Index Volume Two™ – $16.95
       832 Rifts® WB 17: Warlords of Russia™ 
– $24.95
       833 Rifts® WB 18: Mystic Russia™ – $20.95
       834 Rifts® WB 19: Australia – $24.95
       835 Rifts® WB 20: Canada™ – $24.95
       836 Rifts® WB 21: Splynn Dimensional 
Market™ – $24.95
       837 Rifts® WB 22: Free Quebec™ – $24.95
       838 Rifts® WB 23: Xiticix Invasion™ – 
$20.95
       839 Rifts® Coalition Wars®: Sedition™ 
– $20.95
       840 Rifts® Coalition Wars®: Coalition 
Overkill™ – $16.95
       841 Rifts® Coalition Wars®: Sorcerers’ 
Revenge™ – $16.95
       842 Rifts® Coalition Wars®: CyberKnights™ – $16.95
       843 Rifts® Coalition Wars®: Shadows of 
Evil™ – $16.95
       844 Rifts® Coalition Wars®: Final 
Siege™ – $24.95
       845 Rifts® Game Master Guide™ – $26.95
       846 Rifts® Aftermath™ – $24.95
       847 Rifts® DB5: Anvil Galaxy™ – $20.95
       848 Rifts® Book of Magic™ – $26.95
       849 Rifts® Adventure Guide™ – $24.95
       850 Rifts® Bionics Sourcebook™ – $16.95
       851 Rifts® DB 6: Three Galaxies™ – $20.95
       852 Rifts® Dark Conversions™ – $24.95
       853 Rifts® Chi-Town ‘Burbs™ – $9.95
       854 Rifts® The Tolkeen Crisis™ – $12.95
       855 Rifts® The Black Vault™ – $9.95
       856 Rifts® The Vanguard™ – $9.95
       857 Rifts® WB 24: China One™ – $20.95
       858 Rifts® WB 25: China Two™ – $20.95
       859 Rifts® DB 7: Megaverse Builder™ – 
$16.95
       860 Rifts® DB 8: Naruni Wave 2™ – $16.95
       862 Rifts® WB 26: Dinosaur Swamp™ – 
$20.95
       863 Rifts® MercTown™ – $20.95
       865 Rifts® Merc Ops™ – $20.95
       866 Rifts® WB 27: Adventures in Dinosaur Swamp™ – $20.95
       867 Rifts® Mercenary Adventure Sourcebook – $12.95
       868 Rifts® WB 28: Arzno™ – $20.95
       869 Rifts® WB 29: Madhaven™ – $16.95
       870 Rifts® John Zeleznik Coloring Book 
– $5.95
       871 Rifts® Machinations of Doom™ – 
$18.95
       872 Rifts® DB 10: Hades™ – $24.95
       873 Rifts® DB 11: Dyval™ – $24.95
       874 Rifts® WB 30: D-Bees of North 
America™ – $24.95
       875 Rifts® DB12: Dimensional Outbreak 
– $24.95
       MI8006 Cyborgs Pack #1 – $18.00
       MI8007 Simvan & Ostrosaurus Pack – 
$18.00
       MI8008 Coalition Skelebots Pack #1 – $18.00
       MI8009 Coalition SAMAS Pack #1 – $22.00
       MI8010 Coalition Sky Cycle Pack – $22.00
       MI8011 Coalition Dog Pack #2 – $18.00
       MI8015 Damaged Skelebots Pack #1 – 
$12.00
       MI8016 Cyber-Adventurers Pack – $18.00
       MI8017 Rogues & Scout Pack #1 – $18.00
       MI8018 Brodkil & Witchling Pack – $18.00
       MI8019 Damaged Skelebots Pack #2 – 
$18.00
       MI8020 Psi-Stalkers & Scouts Pack #1 – 
$18.00
       MI8021 Shadow Beast – $12.00
       MI8022 Mystic Knight – $6.00
       MI8023 Lord Magus – $6.00
       MI8024 High Magus – $6.00
       MI8025 Coalition Psi-Stalker – $6.00
       MI8026 Coalition Dog Boy in DPM-D1 
Armor – $6.00
       MI8027 Coalition Dog Boy #2 – $6.00
       MI8028 Coalition Dog Boy #3 – $6.00
       MI8029 Coalition Dog Boy #4 – $6.00
       MI8030 Coalition Dog Boy #5 – $6.00
       MI8031 Glitter Boy – $20.00
       MI8032 Glitter Boy Pilot – $6.00
       MI8033 Kydian Overlord – $20.00
       MI8034 Dragonsaurus – $10.00
       MI8035 Slaver and Slave (Atlantis) Set – 
$10.00
       MI8036 Crazy – $6.00
       MI8037 Juicer #1 – $6.00
       MI8038 Juicer #2 – $6.00
       MI8039 Cyborg #1 – $12.00
       MI8040 Cyborg #2 – $12.00
       MI8041 Cyborg #3 – $6.00
       MI8042 Coalition Officer – $6.00
       MI8043 Coalition Grunt #1 – $6.00
       MI8044 Coalition Grunt #2 – $6.00
       MI8045 Coalition Grunt #3 – $6.00
When placing an order by mail, please 
add money for shipping and handling. Add 
$5.00 for orders totaling $1-$50, $10.00 for orders totaling $51-$95, and for orders totaling 
$96-$200 please add $15.00 US. Double the 
amount for Canada, and quadruple it for overseas orders. For more shipping options, order 
online at www.palladiumbooks.com.
Allow 2-4 weeks for delivery.
Make checks and money orders payable to: 
Palladium Books
Check release dates for new products. If 
the book you order has not been released yet, 
your order will be held as a backorder until the 
product is available. Please note that prices are 
subject to change without notice.
Orders can also be placed by phone, at 
(734) 721-2903 (order line only). Please have 
your credit card information when you call.
www.palladiumbooks.com
       876 Rifts® Megaverse® in Flames™ – 
$24.95
       876HC Rifts® Megaverse® in Flames™ 
Gold Hardcover Edition – $50.00
       877 Rifts® Heroes of the Megaverse® – 
$16.95
       878 Rifts® Sourcebook: Shemarrian Nation™ – $16.95
       880 Phase World®: Fleets of the Three 
Galaxies™ – $16.95
       881 Rifts® WB 31: Triax™ Two – $24.95
       883 Rifts® DB 14: Thundercloud Galaxy™ 
– $20.95
       884 Rifts® Vampires Sourcebook™ – $20.95
       885 Rifts® WB 32: Lemuria™ – $24.95
       886 Rifts® Black Market™ – $24.95
       886HC Rifts® Black Market™ Hardcover 
Gold Edition – $60.00
       887 Rifts® WB 33: Northern Gun™ One 
– $24.95
       888 Rifts® WB 34: Northern Gun™ Two 
– $26.95
       889 Rifts® Sourcebook: Coalition States, 
Heroes of Humanity™ – $20.95
       890 Rifts® Dimension Book 15: Secrets of 
the Atlanteans™ – $24.95
       890HC Rifts® DB 15: Secrets of the 
Atlanteans™ Gold Edition – $50.00
       891 Rifts® World Book: Sovietski™ – 
$24.95 (coming)
       892 Rifts® Sourcebook: The Disavowed™ 
– $16.95 (coming)
       893 Rifts® CS: Heroes of Humanity™ 
Arsenal Sourcebook – $16.95 (coming)
       894 Rifts® Haunted Tech™ – $16.95 (coming)
       895 Rifts® Living Nowhere™ – $16.95 
(coming)
       2510 Rifts® & The Megaverse® Art Book 
– $22.95
       2510-HC Rifts® & The Megaverse® Art 
Book, Hardcover – $50.00
       2510-CML Rifts® & The Megaverse® Art 
Book, Collector’s Masterwork – $125.00
Miscellaneous Products
       600 Deluxe Revised RECON® RPG – 
$22.95
       2537 Gamer Coffee Mug – $10.00
       2545 Dead Reign™ Coffee Mug – $10.00
       2554 Palladium Bookmarks, Set One – $5.00
       2555 Palladium Bookmarks, Set Two – $5.00
       2561 Property of Chi-Town Library Pencil 
– $0.50 each
       2562 Future Visions™ – The Artistry of 
Charles Walton II – $13.95
       2566 Glitter Boy Mouse Pad – $9.95
       2567 Old Ones Mouse Pad – $9.95
       2568 Zombie Graveyard Mouse Pad – $9.95
       2575 Rifts Poker Cards 1 (full color) – $11.99
       2576 Rifts Poker Cards 2 (line art) – $11.99
Note: T-tshirts and other products can be 
found online: www.palladiumbooks.com
Rifts® Miniatures
       MI8002 Xiticix Pack – $18.00
       MI8004 Coalition Dog Pack – $18.00
       MI8005 Men of Magic Pack #1 – $18.00
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
www.palladiumbooks.com
®
Palladium Books
® Presents:
Between the Shadows
™
Between the Shadows explores three mysterious worlds. The first is the world of espionage, spies, duplicity and 
secrets as practiced by an organization known as Spook Squad — ex-CIA, FBI, DEA, and other operatives, soldiers 
in a war against the supernatural.
The
The 
Astral Plane, an endless expanse of swirling, white mists and clouds, but far more mysterious and alive than 
most Earth mystics realize. 
An entire dimension of the fantastic.
Even humankind’s dreams are not safe from the Nightlords and their minions. The Dreamstream is the creation 
of humankind’s collective subconscious, yet it is more than the stuff of lost dreams and desires — it is the domain of 
Living Nightmares, Guilt Eaters, and dark personas waiting to strike while we sleep. Plus ...
● Over a dozen new character classes including the 
Astral Mage, Dream Dancer, and the 
Arcane Detective.
● Spook Squad, its agents, organization, weapons and goals.
● 
Astral and Dream magic, combat and predators.
● New Nightbane Morphus Tables and Talents.
● The secrets of the 
Astral Plane and Dreamstream.
● World information, adventures, adventure ideas, and more.
● The first of many supplements for the Nightbane® RPG series.
$20.95
Cat. No. 731
ISBN-10: 0-9162
ISBN-10: 0-916211-90-8
ISBN-13: 978-0-916211-90-5
Available
at stores
everywhere
Also for Nightbane®
Nightbane® Role-Playing Game – 240 pages, Cat. No. 730
Nightlands™ – 144 pages, Cat. No. 732
Through the Glass Darkly™ – 152 pages, Cat. No. 733
Dead Reign® RPG
Civilization
Civilization has crumbled. 
The walking dead have risen and 
feed upon the living. Can you survive when the dead reign?
● 6 
Apocalyptic character classes. 7 different types of zombies.
● Zombie combat tips, survival advice and resources.
● Death Cults, world overview, and many adventure ideas.
● 
A complete role-playing game, 224 pages, Cat. No. 230.
Also for Dead Reign®
Civilization Gone™
Civilization Gone™ – 64 pages, Cat. No. 231
Dark Places™ – 64 pages, Cat. No. 232
Endless Dead™ – 96 pages, Cat. No. 233
Fear the Reaper™ – 48 pages, Cat. No. 234
Graveyard Earth™ – 64 pages, Cat. No. 235
Hell Followed™ – 160 pages, Cat. No. 236
Also from Palladium Books
®
Nightbane® Survival Guide
The world changed after Dark Day, and so did you. 
You are the Nightbane and only you can stop 
the horror that is the Nightlords.
● Nightbane survival tips, and the Nightbane’s role in the Hidden War.
● New Nightbane Morphus Tables, Talents, Insanity Tables and skills.
● New Nightbane Creation Guideline
● New Nightbane Creation Guideline Tables, Education Modifiers and Character Detail Tables.
● Rules for Nightbane Contacts (informers, spies and buddies), and for creating your own faction.
● 
A complete adventure, adventure ideas, world information and more. 160 pages, Cat. No. 735.
Joe Sifferman (Order #46323384)
