Stigmata Table 
Mockingly named after the "sacred wounds" said to appear 
on saintly people, stigmata are among the most disturbing de­
fonnities among the Nightbane. The common characteristic of 
all stigmata is that the Nightbane appears to be injured. The 
wound can be an open cut, blister, sore or a foreign object im­
bedded in the flesh. From time to time, the wound oozes with 
blood, puss, or other fluid. These wounds never heal, and are 
often a source of discomfort and pain to the character. 
What do these marks represent? Are they an embodiment of 
the guilt, fears and psychic pain of the Nightbane? In times past, 
many religious people called Nightbane stigmata a sign of the 
devil and "the witches' mark." Modem thinkers believe them to 
be a reflection of psychological traumas. In a few cases, the stig­
mata are the result of terrible wounds suffered by the Nightbane 
just before his transfonnation. For example: 600 years ago when 
a young Nightbane first manifested his powers, he was under at­
tack by soldiers. He had been stabbed and slashed repeatedly 
when the Becoming began, and as a result, his Morphus bore 
those wounds and they have never healed. Another example is 
Burger-face (see the Campaign Section), who first manifested 
when he was trapped in a burning building, and whose face has a 
horrible burned and mangled appearance. 
Roll percentile dice to detennine a stigmata.
01-05 % Bloody Ooze: Covered in a slimy, blood-like liquid, 
making his skin slippery (add +2 to parry/dodge pins or grap­
pling attacks). Add ID4 to Horror Factor. 
101 
06-10% Corpse-Like: The Nightbane's skin is grayish­
green, his eyes are sunken, and he looks like a days-old corpse, 
complete with the odor of death and signs of decay. Reduce P.B. 
by 25%, add 3D6 to S.D.C. and add ID4 to Horror Factor.
11-15 % Stitches: A crisscrossing of stitches at several points 
in the skin, gives the Nightbane the appearance of a "rebuilt" 
corpse. Sometimes, the limbs and body may not quite match. For 
example, the "sewn-on" limbs might belong to an animal, while 
the torso and head are human-like! This is particularly appropri­
ate for lycanthrope Nightbane who bear stigmata. Add 3D6 to 
S.D.C. and I D4 to Horror Factor.
16-23 % Nails: Metal nails, pins, spikes or screws protrude 
from the character's skin. They can be localized to a few small 
areas on the body (around the eyes, on the forehead, hands, 
shoulders, torso, etc.), or they can completely cover the charac­
ter (player's choice). Add 4D6 to S.D.C. and, if completely cov­
ered, a body slam inflicts 2D6 plus nonnal punch damage.
24-31 % Razor Blades: Razor blades are unnaturally attached 
to the Nightbane. They may have replaced teeth or fingernails, 
or even cover the character like a porcupine's quills. Add ID4+ 1 
to H.F. The character gains +4D6 to S.D.C., and inflicts an addi­
tional 1 D6 S.D.C. in hand to hand combat if the fingernails have 
been replaced with razors. Or a bite inflicts 2D6 S.D.C. if the ra­
zor blades appear in the mouth. If the blades are on the skin, 
body slams do 2D6 S.D.C. plus nonnal punch damage.
32-39% Broken Glass: Jagged pieces of glass are imbedded 
in the character's flesh. They can be located in small specific ar­
eas or cover the body. Same damage as razor blades above. Add 
3D6 to S.D.C., and 1 D4 to Horror Factor.-47 % Barbed Wire/Razor Wire: Part of the character's 
limbs head, neck or torso are wrapped in barbed or razor wire, 
causing bloody wounds that never heal. Same damage as razor 
blades above. Add 4D6 to S.D.C. and I D4 to horror factor.
48-55 % Eternal Wounds: The Nightbane bears horrible 
wounds that never heal. Most often, the wounds are clearly vis­
ible and may appear to be deadly, including gaping chest 
wounds, gashes in the skull, cuts, gouges and other grotesquer­
ies. The wounds cover any clothes the character wears with 
bloody patches in a matter of minutes, soaking through bandages 
and dressings after a while. Add 3D6 to S.D.C. and ID4 to Hor­
ror Factor.
56-63 % Missing Skin: Patches of skin or even the whole skin 
(player's choice) are missing, revealing bare muscle and bones. 
Add 3D6 to S.D.C. and ID4+ 1 to Horror Factor.
64-71 % Leatherboy/girl: Portions (or all) of the Night­
bane's skin seems to have been replaced with shiny, polished 
leather, belts, bodysuits, and the like. S&M gear like hoods and 
straps are not uncommon, all grafted to the skin and flesh of the 
character. Metal studs, chains and other "decorations" finish the 
grotesque design. Add 5D6 to S.D.C. and ID4 to Horror Factor.
72-79% Boils or Sores: Areas of the character's body are 
covered in open sores or festering boils. Add 3D6 to S.D.C. and 
2 points to Horror Factor.
80-85 % Zippers: Zippers close horrible wounds in the char­
acter's body. Add 3D6 to S.D.C., and 1 to Horror Factor. The 
Horror Factor is increased by 3 if the Nightbane opens the zipper 
to reveal the pulsing flesh or organs underneath! 
86-90% Bones: Some (or even all) of the Nightbane's body 
has been stripped of flesh and muscle to reveal bare bone. Add 
5D6xl O  to S.D.C. and ID4+ 1 to Horror Factor.
91-96 % Biomechanical: Roll on the Biomechanical Table, 
but any modifications will appear to make bloody wounds or 
sores where the mechanics are attached or placed in the charac­
ter! For example, if Armorgraft (see below) was rolled, the ar­
mor would appear to have been nailed or hammered into the 
flesh of the Nightbane, and its edges would have a patina of 
fresh blood! Add 1 point to the normal Horror Factor associated 
with that Biomechanical characteristic.
97-00% Combination of Two: Roll two times (ignore and re­
roll any roll of 97% or higher) and combine the two charac­
teristics and Horror Factor points. 