Stigmata Table II
When determining stigmata features, the player can roll on the 
original table as presented in the Nightbane® RPG, page 101, 
or he may roll on this one, or make selections from both. -20% 
to skills such as Disguise, Seduction and Undercover Ops, unless 
stated otherwise.
01-20% Inside-Out Creature: The Nightbane’s body has 
been literally turned inside out; his/her organs are on the outside 
of the body, resulting in the most grotesque image possible. Not 
even other Nightbane will feel comfortable around such a creature. Add 1D6x10 to S.D.C. and +1D4+2 to Horror Factor. Note: 
Disguise, Seduction and Undercover Ops are impossible.
21-40% Translucent Skin: The character’s skin has a translucent, semi-transparent quality, reminiscent of a thin plastic or 
rubber membrane, allowing muscle tissue and organs to be semivisible. Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
41-60% Body Faces: 1D6 Small faces and heads dot the character’s body! These heads can be as small as a thumb or as large 
as a grapefruit. Some Nightbane can speak through these faces; 
others cannot stop the faces from screaming, laughing, gibbering, 
or mouthing expressions. The mouths of each face may also bite 
any enemy that gets within grappling distance; each can inflict 
1D4 points of damage per bite. Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C. and 
+1D6 to Horror Factor.
61-75% Withered Flesh: The Nightbane’s flesh is dried and 
mummy-like, making the character look like a desiccated corpse. 
Add 3D6 to S.D.C. and +1 to Horror Factor.
76-90% Gut Tentacles: A pair of tentacles covered in purple 
and blue blood vessels or that resemble intestines, can extend out 
of the body from the belly and grapple, whip or strike at one’s opponents! These disgusting limbs inflict 2D6 damage with a whipping attack, 1D6 with a strike/punch, and can grapple enemies 
with the same strength as the Nightbane, with a maximum range 
of 6 feet (1.8 m). Adds one extra attack per melee, +2D6 S.D.C. 
and +2 to Horror Factor.
91-00% Shifting Body: The Nightbane’s Morphus is always 
shifting uncontrollably, with characteristics from both stigmata 
tables appearing at random. So, for example, a tiny head might 
appear in the character’s chest, linger for 1D6 minutes, and then 
disappear, replaced by open wounds, protruding nails or similarly 
disgusting traits. The new feature stays on for 1D6 minutes (1-
50%) or 1D4 hours (51-00%), and then is replaced by something 
else. Also roll or select a new stigmata every time the character 
switches to the Facade and then back to Morphus; roll randomly 
to see what new feature appears on his body. However, the character does not gain any of the bonuses that normally accompany 
those stigmata, except for the Horror Factor. Bonuses: Instead 
the character gets +1D4x10 S.D.C., +1 on Perception Rolls, and 
+1 on initiative. Horror Factor is determined by the stigmata of 
the moment.
Morphus Tables from
Nightlands™ Sourcebook