Stigmata Table I
Mockingly named after the “sacred wounds” said to appear 
on saintly people, stigmata are among the most disturbing deformities among the Nightbane. The common characteristic of all 
stigmata is that the Nightbane appears to be injured. The wound 
can be an open cut, blister, sore or a foreign object imbedded in 
the flesh. From time to time the wound will ooze with blood, pus, 
or other fluid. These wounds never heal, and are often a source of 
discomfort and pain to the character.
What do these marks represent? Are they an embodiment of 
the guilt, fears and psychic pain of the Nightbane? In times past, 
many religious people called Nightbane stigmata a sign of the 
devil and “the witch’s mark.” Modern thinkers believe them to be 
a reflection of psychological trauma. In a few cases, the stigmataare the result of terrible wounds suffered by the Nightbane just 
before his transformation: For example: 600 years ago when a 
young Nightbane first manifested his powers, he was under attack 
by soldiers. He had been stabbed and slashed repeatedly when the 
Becoming began, and as a result, his Morphus bore those wounds 
and they have never healed.
Roll percentile dice to determine a stigmata.
01-05% Bloody Ooze: Covered in a slimy blood-like liquid, 
making his skin slippery. Bonuses: +2 to parry and dodge pins or 
grappling attacks, and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
06-10% Corpse-Like: The Nightbane’s skin is grayish-green, 
his eyes are sunken, and he looks like a days-old corpse, complete 
with the odor of death and signs of decay. Bonuses: +3D6 to 
S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor. Reduce P.B. by 25%.
11-15% Stitches: A crisscrossing of stitches at several points 
in the skin gives the Nightbane the appearance of a “rebuilt” 
corpse. Sometimes, the limbs and body may not quite match. For 
example, the “sewn-on” limbs might belong to an animal, while 
the torso and head are human-like! This is particularly appropriate for lycanthrope Nightbane who bear stigmata. Bonuses: 3D6 
to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
16-23% Nails: Metal nails, pins, spikes or screws protrude 
from the character’s skin. They can be localized to a few small 
areas on the body (around the eyes, on the forehead, hands, 
shoulders, torso, etc.), or they can completely cover the character (player’s choice). Bonuses: 4D6 to S.D.C. and, if covered, a 
body slam inflicts +2D6 added to normal Supernatural P.S. punch 
damage.
24-31% Razor Blades: Razor blades are unnaturally attached 
to the Nightbane. They may have replaced teeth or fingernails, 
or cover the character like a porcupine’s quills. Bonuses: +1D4 
to Horror Factor, +4D6 to S.D.C., and +1D6 damage added to 
Supernatural P.S. punch damage. In combat, if the fingernails 
or teeth have been replaced with razors, +1D6 damage to claw 
strikes and +2D6 damage to bite attacks. If the blades are on the 
skin, body slams do +2D6 S.D.C., plus normal punch damage.
32-39% Broken Glass: Jagged pieces of glass are embedded 
in the character’s flesh. They can be located in small specific areas or cover the body. Same damage as #24-31 above. Bonuses: 
+3D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
40-47% Barbed Wire/Razor Wire: Part of the character’s 
limbs head, neck or torso are wrapped in barbed or razor wire, 
causing bloody wounds that never heal. Same damage as #24-31 
above. Bonuses: +4D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
48-55% Eternal Wounds: The Nightbane bears horrible 
wounds that never heal. Most often, the wounds are clearly visible and may appear to be deadly, including gaping chest wounds, 
gashes in the skull, cuts, gouges and other grotesqueries. The 
wounds cover any clothes the character wears with bloody patches in a matter of minutes, soaking through bandages and dressings after a while. Bonuses: +3D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror 
Factor.
56-63% Missing Skin: Patches of skin or even the whole skin 
(player’s choice) are missing, revealing bare muscle and bones. 
Bonuses: +3D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4+1 to Horror Factor.
64-71% Leatherboy/girl: Portions (or all) of the Nightbane’s 
skin seems to have been replaced with shiny, polished leather, 
belts, bodysuits, and the like. S&M gear like hoods and straps is 
not uncommon, all grafted to the skin and flesh of the character. 
Metal studs, chains and other “decorations” finish the grotesque 
design. Bonuses: +5D6 to S.D.C. and +1D4 to Horror Factor.
72-79% Boils or Sores: Areas of the character’s body are covered in open sores or festering boils. Bonuses: +3D6 to S.D.C. 
and +2 to Horror Factor.
80-85% Zippers: Zippers close horrible wounds in the character’s body. Bonuses: +3D6 to S.D.C. and 1 to Horror Factor, 
but the Horror Factor is increased by 3 if the Nightbane opens the 
zipper to reveal the pulsing flesh or organs underneath!
86-90% Bones: Some (or even all) of the Nightbane’s body 
has been stripped of flesh and muscle to reveal bare bone. Bonuses: +5D6x10 to S.D.C. and 1D4+1 to Horror Factor.
91-96% Biomechanical: Roll on the Biomechanical Table, 
but any modifications will appear to make bloody wounds or 
sores where the mechanics are attached or placed in the character! For example, if Armorgraft (see below) was rolled, the armor 
would appear to have been nailed or hammered into the flesh of 
the Nightbane, and its edges would have a patina of fresh blood! 
Add 1 point to the normal Horror Factor associated with that Biomechanical characteristic.
97-00% Combination of Two: Roll two times (ignore and 
re-roll any roll of 97% or higher) and combine the two characteristics and Horror Factor points.