From Stone-Age hunters, to Sikh swordsmen, to the Japanese 
ninja, mankind has a long and brutal history of conflict. Given 
this, it should be no surprise that some Nightbane have ended 
up with elements of their Morphus forms reflecting aspects of 
ancient warfare and foreign cultures. Features from this table are 
most common among Ancient Nightbane who are 150 years old 
or older. Modern Nightbane, however, may have one or more 
Ancient Warrior features as well, due to the influence of books, 
comic books, movies, television, video games, manga, anime, 
education and the Internet. For example, perhaps this Nightbane 
feels he was born in the wrong age and longs for a simpler time. 
Strongly identifying with a particular code of conduct or outlook, 
such as chivalry or bushido originating from a warrior caste leads 
to the manifestation of Morphus features from another time and 
culture. Or maybe his favorite heroes from a comic book, anime 
or video game with such historical weapons, costumes and values 
inspire or resonate with the individual in some way. The Mor-
phus is, after all, a reflection or manifestation of something inside 
of the Nightbane, whether it is an ideal, fear or desire buried in 
his psyche or something that resonates with him on some other 
powerful level. That can be something that sparks his imagina-
tion or strikes a nerve that makes him want to be a hero of old. 
Humans tend to hold their emotions inside, so the Morphus may 
be a reflection of that inner torment, hidden goodness, fear, sense 
of nobility or heroics, darkness, light, pain, love, hate, etc.
Whatever the case, those with features from the Ancient War-
rior Table tend to be more aggressive and combative, whether 
they are protecting the innocent or fighting to take what they want 
or believe they deserve. Such warlike Nightbane are more likely 
to join or be recruited by groups like the Resistance or War-
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
19
lords. Combat Note: These Nightbane are also more willing to 
engage enemies in close-quarters combat, which grants them one 
additional Ancient Weapon Proficiency.
Roll percentile dice once for random determination, or pick 
one.
01-15% Ancient Infantry/Foot Soldier: The backbone of al-
most any ancient military force was its infantry. While not as glo-
rified as warriors such as knights or archers, these steadfast and 
brave souls were often required to march for hundreds of miles 
and engage enemies in brutal melee combat. On more than one 
occasion, “infantry” included simple peasants using their farming 
implements or scavenged weaponry.
Nightbane warriors are dressed in simple clothing, perhaps 
even as little as a loincloth, that may or may not match that of an 
ancient society. They may also have other small distinguishing 
features such as the piercings of a Zulu warrior or face paint of a 
Viking or Native American. Armor and helmet or uniform/iconic 
imagery may be Babylonian, Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Norman, 
French Musketeer, Samurai, American Civil War, and countless 
others. A single two-handed melee weapon or pair of one-hand-
ed weapons (see the Nightbane® Main Book, pages 204-209 
for some options) rounds out the warrior. Note that one-handed 
weapons may also include shields, and almost every infantry sol-
dier throughout time had a helmet or headdress of some kind that 
protected the head and identified the fighting force. The helmet 
may be something worn or horns or bone in the shape of the hel-
met for the infantry of the appropriate era and country.
Damage inflicted by each ancient weapon is the same as its 
mundane equivalent though it can never be broken and he blade 
never dulls. Of course, it also cannot be separated from the Night-
bane which means it either stays in the hand (cannot be disarmed) 
or somehow secured to the character. Bonuses: +1D4 to the P.S. 
attribute, +1D4 to P.E., and +1D6 to Spd. +1D6x10 S.D.C. +1 to 
strike and parry with a melee weapon. +1 to Awe/Horror Factor. 
Penalties: -1 to the M.E. attribute, -1 to M.A., and -2 to P.B.
16-30% Archer: The snipers and marksmen of their day, 
archers were typically meant to rain death upon enemies from 
afar. Primarily deployed in ranks behind other units, on defen-
sive structures, or in ambush positions, archers were almost never 
intended to engage the enemy in close quarters except as a last 
resort. Of course, exceptions such as Comanche braves, Russian 
Cossacks, Mongolian horsemen, and Japanese samurai, all excel-
lent horsemen skilled at firing a bow from horseback at full gal-
lop, did exist. Amazon warrior women, though the stuff of myth, 
my also be an element in a Nightbane’s Morphus.
Nightbane archers may be dressed according to the garb of an 
ancient civilization or a fictitious equivalent, or something more 
gothic. While the dress of Nightbane archers can vary from indi-
vidual to individual, every Nightbane archer has at least one thing 
in common: Each has a bow of some kind and quiver of arrows or 
bolts when in Morphus form. This can be a short bow (1D6 dam-
age, 340 feet/104 m range), longbow (2D6 damage, 640 foot/195 
m range), modern crossbow (2D6 damage, 470 foot/143 m 
range), modern crossbow pistol (probably one for each hand/arm; 
1D6 damage, 120 feet/36.6 m range), or heavy modern crossbow 
(3D6 damage, 600 foot/183 m range), whichever weapon seems 
the most appropriate. The number of attacks per melee that can 
be made with this weapon is equal to the number of hand to hand 
attacks using a bow, and half that for a crossbow. The quiver 
NEVER runs out of ammunition. Bonuses: +1 to the M.E. at-
tribute, +1 to P.S., +1 to P.P., and +1 to Perception Rolls. Also 
+1 one attack per melee round and +2 to strike, but ONLY when 
using a bow and arrow or a crossbow. Penalties: -1 to the P.E. 
attribute and -1D6 S.D.C. Also tends to be uncomfortable in con-
fined spaces.
31-45% Assassin: Clandestine warriors whose job it was to 
infiltrate enemy camps or cities and eliminate high-value targets, 
assassins used a number of tactics to accomplish their missions. 
From the ubiquitous ninja clans of ancient Japan to lesser known 
varieties, these trained killers were often widely feared. Then 
again they were just as often shunned for doing the dirty work so 
few would undertake.
This Morphus is dressed in dark clothing that has numerous 
folds and pockets or pouches suitable for concealing weapons and 
tools. The Nightbane also always appears tense and on edge as if 
danger lurks around every corner. Two small weapons such as 
daggers are always hidden somewhere on his person, along with 
2D4 small throwing weapons such as darts, spikes, or shuriken. 
These weapons deal the same damage as their mundane coun-
terparts, but disappear after striking the target and reappear on 
the Nightbane after a single melee round (15 seconds). Bonuses: 
+1 to the M.E. attribute, +1 to P.S., and +1D4 to P.P., +4D6 to 
S.D.C., +1 to all Perception Rolls, +1 to Awe/Horror Factor, +1 
to strike with melee weapons, bow, and thrown weapons, and 
+10% to the Prowl skill. Penalties: -1D4 to the M.A. attribute. 
Their appearance makes other leery, making Invoke Trust impos-
sible.
46-55% Cavalry: Cavalry soldiers are mounted warriors 
trained to fight while astride powerful steeds and used to punch 
holes in enemy lines or flank around them. The cavalry were the 
battle-tanks of their day. Superior height and momentum gave 
them a decided advantage against unmounted opponents, and 
speed allowed cavalry to adapt quickly to changing battlefield 
conditions and harry enemy forces with hit-and-run tactics. Dress 
can vary widely among those Nightbane with this feature. From 
richly colored robes to simple animal skins or furs, the appear-
ance can reflect real warriors such as the Cossacks, Samurai or 
Sioux horsemen, to imaginary or fictional types. Whatever the 
garb, the thing that distinguishes these Nightbane is that they al-
ways appear in Morphus with a horse, or may be Centaur-like 
themselves, with the lower body of a horse.
The horse can be of any color or breed, and may look abso-
lutely ordinary, beautiful, emaciated, monstrous in some way, 
partially armored or demonic, but it is always a horse. While 
Joe Sifferman (Order #46319524)
20
the mount may look like a separate creature, it is actually a part 
of the Nightbane and fully under his or her complete control. A 
large weapon meant for mounted combat, such as a lance (1D8 
damage) or flail (2D6 damage), or long, curved cavalry sword 
(2D6 damage) rounds out the appearance. Though the “rider” 
can dismount, the two must remain in physical contact, even if 
it is leading the horse portion by the reins. The only exception 
is when one or the other is destroyed. If this happens, restoring 
the destroyed half requires transforming to Facade and back to 
Morphus which splits the remaining Hit Points/S.D.C. between 
the two. Bonuses: Humanoid: +1D4 to the P.S. and +1D6 to 
Spd attributes; +2D6x10 S.D.C. and +6D6 Hit Points. Horse: 
+2D6 to P.S., +2 to P.E., +1D4 to P.B. and 1D6x10+20 to Spd; 
the horse can also pull 10 times the normal carrying weight and 
jump 10 feet (3 m) high and 20 feet (6.1 m) lengthwise. Mount-
ed Combat Bonuses (Nightbane is on his horse): +2 attacks per 
melee, +1 on initiative, +2 to parry and dodge, and +6 to dam-
age. Penalties: The “mount/horse” has half of the Nightbane’s 
S.D.C. and Hit Points while the rider has the other half, mak-
ing the two halves easier to destroy when targeted separately. 
Each portion heals 5 Hit Points/S.D.C. per melee round, and 
both must be destroyed to kill the Nightbane. Note: When dis-
mounted the Nightbane has half the normal number of attacks 
and combat bonuses.
56-60% War-Chief/Warlord: The Nightbane looks like a 
nobleman, warlord, or chieftain outfitted for battle. Any garb 
worn is of the highest quality and an ornate headdress or helm 
denoting a commanding rank. If armor is a part of the Morphus, 
via another feature, it will be richly decorated or gilded and 
adds 50% more S.D.C. The same goes for the three high-quality 
ancient weapons that are also part of this feature. Typically, 
these consist of a large, two-handed weapon, a sword or dag-
ger as a backup, and a ranged weapon such as a bow, spear or 
javelin. Each of these weapons inflicts 50% more damage than 
its real world equivalent. For example, a warlord’s battle-axe 
would deal 3D6 damage rather than the normal 2D6. Bonuses: 
+1 to I.Q., +2 to M.A., +1D4 to P.S., +2 to P.P. and P.E., and 
+1D4 to P.B. +1D4x10 to S.D.C., Natural A.R. 9, +2 to strike, 
+1 to parry and disarm with melee weapons, and +1 to Awe/
Horror Factor. Penalties: The appearance of a warlord is meant 
to inspire friendly forces and intimidate enemies, not to make 
it easy to hide in shadowy alleys, so the Nightbane is -20% to 
Prowl and any enemies are +2 on Perception Rolls to notice 
the actions of this character. Looking like a leader also tends to 
make one a target in battle.
61-75% Light Armor: The Nightbane appears to be wear-
ing some kind of light armor such as studded leather armor or a 
half-suit of chain mail and a helmet. This armor was favored not 
just because it was much cheaper to produce and maintain. Light 
armor was also much easier than heavier types to wear and move 
in while still offering a measure of protection against melee and 
missile weapons. The type and look of the armor is left up to the 
player and does not affect the bonuses gained. This armor cannot 
be removed. It is a part of the character. Bonuses: Increase the 
character’s base Natural A.R. to 11 and +1D4x10+40 to S.D.C. 
Penalties: -1 to the P.E. attribute, -10% to the final Spd attribute, 
and -10% to the performance of Physical skills such as Swim-
ming, Prowl, Climbing and Acrobatics.
76-90% Heavy Armor: From the plate mail of Eastern Eu-
rope to the lacquered armor of Japanese samurai, a number of 
ancient cultures sought to protect their warriors from harm as best 
they could. A Nightbane with the Heavy Armor feature is clad in 
some kind of heavy armor. Appearance and styling of the armor 
is up to the player, but it looks like an ancient suit of armor rather 
than anything modern. The armor is full body, including some 
sort of helmet that may or may not cover the face. It is a part of 
the Morphus and cannot be removed like normal armor. Bonus-
es: Increase the base Natural A.R. to 13. +1D6x10+100 to S.D.C. 
Penalties: -2 to P.P. and P.E. attributes, -20% to the final Spd 
attribute, and -20% to the performance of Physical skills such as 
Swimming, Prowl, Climbing and Acrobatics.
91-00% Color Standard: A standard is some kind of flag, 
banner, or symbol representing a military force. In ancient war-
fare they were used to identify different armies or army units on 
a battlefield. Standards served as a rallying point and as morale 
boosters, so if the carrier was slain the standard would be picked 
up by another soldier and hoisted once more.
The Nightbane possesses such a standard while in Morphus 
form. It might be carried or mounted somewhere onto the body, 
but whatever the case, it is displayed prominently for all to see. 
The exact symbol, colors, design or flag is up to the player and 
can be historically accurate or completely made-up as long as 
it holds some kind of meaning for the Nightbane character. If 
handheld, the standard can be used as a blunt weapon, like a staff 
that does 1D6 damage in addition to that of the Nightbane’s Su-
pernatural Strength. Bonuses: +1 to the M.E. attribute, +1D4+1 
to M.A., +1 to P.S., and +1 to P.B. +4D6+6 S.D.C., +1 to parry 
and disarm if the standard is handheld, and +1 to Awe/Horror 
Factor. Penalties: -1D4 to the Spd attribute, -1 attack per melee, 
and -1 to dodge.